Do you ever work in a bar?
I've never worked in a bar. I have a Guinness keg in my head.
Actually, do you want another pint?
Yeah, sure, sure. I was talking to a guy who runs procurement and I was like,
you have to understand, I'm just getting bullshitted to all day, you know.
It's just all day relentless, absolute nonsense in my face.
People do not have enough empathy for the procurement person
who just has to endure non-stop nonsense.
Absolute garbage like the A.
ChatGPT launching on a Thursday.
I had a call with Fergal, our head of A.I. on a Friday.
Owen made the decision, like, on the Sunday, I think it was,
and we started working on, like, the A.I. version of Intercom on the Monday.
It was a lot easier to invest when being a founder. It was uncool.
I blame Genuine into social network.
I blame just kind of the entrepreneurial lifestyle.
I blame my TikTok, I blame all these things.
So have a sush. Yeah, yeah, yeah, exactly, yeah.
You just show me your technique and I will learn from you
because I'm pretty sure I'm doing it wrong.
This is the first time I've ever poured a pint to Guinness in America.
My fellow Irishman, Des Trainers, the co-founder of Intercom,
the customer service giant turned A.I. company.
He's also a prolific blogger and one of the most respected voices
on product strategy. Cheers.
Cheers.
OK.
You are my first Irish guest,
and so I actually have a critically important question
that has been burning this entire time.
Whenever we release these episodes,
all the YouTube commenters are obsessed with people splitting the G.
This was never a thing for me growing up,
a thing I never saw in Ireland.
It's like an invasive species, maybe from TikTok.
Is this a thing?
No.
It's not amongst anyone who you would respect.
It's very much an actual TikTok thing.
It's a slight bit of a tourist thing because of that.
But it basically means that you're drinking,
I think it's a quarter to a pint in your first mouthful,
and it's like, I don't know.
A waste of good Guinness. Yes.
Yeah, OK.
It's a little like when I first came to America,
drinking games, it's like, back home, drinking is very serious.
I couldn't make a game out of it.
Exactly, yeah, yeah.
I was very confused by that in America.
OK, and then my other stout-related question
is that I saw you pining on like Beamish, Murphy's,
everything like this.
I don't know, what is your view on the stout landscape
in particular?
I probably default to Guinness.
There's been moments when I'd go cook any Beamish, Murphy's.
It's kind of usually it's like when you're every year
in their respective hometowns,
but for the most part, I default to Guinness.
And for like one brief day, I tried the island's edge.
I don't know if you remember when,
I think it was Heineken.
Heineken launched the Guinness killer
in the last of all of six months or something like that.
I think literally they were giving it away at the end
until it couldn't get rid of it by the end.
Have you heard all the Guinness stats about,
Guinness used to be a majority of Ireland's stock markets.
Obviously the canal system was built for Guinness distribution,
but sometimes we can tell people
that Guinness used to be a very significant part
of Ireland's economy.
They don't believe you, but the stats are really there.
And it's weird, like it trickles into modern day,
like where I live by Castle and Ock,
like a lot of chunks of the Phoenix Park are owned still,
or they're exactly where the houses were used to be there,
and it's like they don't,
maybe they donated it to OPW or something like that,
but yeah, it's pretty much still kind of carries forward.
Yes, okay.
And we're not actually gonna talk about Guinness
the whole time, we should also talk about Intercom.
And I was thinking in preparing for this,
I'm very impressed by businesses
that can reinvent themselves
or maybe even reinvent themselves multiple times.
You think about Netflix,
they started with the original DVD by Mail business,
and then, oh my God, the internet's coming
and they had a few abortive attempts at streaming,
like remember the whole Quikster debacle,
but then really cracked streaming movies.
And so you can watch The Godfather
or you can watch whatever movie you want on Netflix.
And then of course,
as they got more squeezed by the rights holders,
you actually can't go watch The Godfather
on Netflix anymore.
Or you type any movie into Netflix and it's not there,
because now Netflix is all first-party content
that they have developed themselves.
And so they've reinvented the platform once again
to be rather than watching other people's content,
watching Netflix content.
They've twice reinvented the company from DVD by Mail
to streaming third-party content
to streaming first-party content.
Intercom strikes me as a business
that has similarly been reinvented twice,
where you guys got started with the Intercom feature
of you can talk to your customer through the website
and then you guys became a customer service company,
which is actually different for reasons we can talk about.
And now you're becoming an AI customer service company.
That's my theory of Intercom.
Is that actually an accurate theory?
Yeah, that's true.
There's a bit of extra context I give it.
So when we started, it wasn't really,
it was like about like this is like literally when we started.
And our initial plan was like,
hey, you remember the Intercom Stripe was in
its early days back then as well,
but like there was no tooling to run a SaaS business.
It was like literally nothing.
It was like you were using,
you were kind of abusing like PayPal for payments
and you were using like MailChimp
for like talking to your customers.
And so, you know, we had this idea of like
talking to your customers is really important.
So someone should work on that, you know?
And like there's so much stuff in the early releases
of Intercom, like it was the first live CDP,
like you actually see who's live in your product right now
and what you're doing and you can store data again.
So you can say, show me all my premium customers.
And weirdly like use cases like that still exists today.
Like I was in Denmark last week and I was like,
oh, I should message all my Copenhagen customers into you.
And like all that stuff is like,
you're still kind of like, who else is doing this?
Yes, yes.
So we started out like with a very,
very general purpose idea,
which was like that internet businesses
talk to their customers.
And then we kind of fell in love with this jobs
to be done methodology.
And like one of the things you do in that
is you look at how your product is actually used
and then you iterate on it from that point of view.
And that kind of led us down
this path of sales marketing and support.
And then I guess to skip a load of years here,
let's just say 2020, things were great.
2022, things weren't as great.
And then it was like, we need to focus.
It's concise, precieve of the period.
Let's just cut a lot of the reasons why or whatever.
Some sort of disease as well along the way.
But yeah, so 2022, like it was like,
own returned on the left in 2020, I think.
Own returned, business had been like
in declining that new revenue.
He said like we need to focus,
we're gonna focus on customer service.
And then a short time later,
I think maybe like 10 weeks later,
AI happened, Chachi PT launched,
I think on a Thursday.
I think we, I had a call with Fergal,
our head of AI on Friday.
I spoke with Owen Altree the weekend and like,
we made the decision, Owen made the decision,
like on the Sunday, I think it was.
And we started working on like the AI version
of Intercom on the Monday.
And that was like 2022.
And I think like we're an offered out.
It's hard to say exactly where things would have gone,
but certainly that's the reason I'm sitting here.
And obviously people are naturally wired to be skeptical.
You know, when they hear the AI version of Intercom,
you have everyone and their mother out there
saying we're an AI company now,
but you actually are an AI company now.
And so describe what the AI version of Intercom
actually means.
The biggest thing it means for us is our product, FIN.
So we launched FIN in March, I think 2023.
We launched a few little AI features.
We were the first people to actually build anything on,
like the GPT 3.5.
And then we launched FIN in March GPT 4 launch day.
And FIN was like basically the first job bot that worked.
It's the best way you can think about it.
What that really meant was we could actually have
conversations and answer questions.
And when we launched it,
it was doing like I think 25% resolution rate.
And that was like crazy numbers.
Today it's like 65%.
And today FIN's resolving about it.
Over a million conversations a week.
It's handled about 40 million actual end-to-end
customer service scenarios to date.
It's, you know, growing like over 300% year over year.
It's like, you know, we charge a dollar per answer
so you can work your revenue at $0.99 even.
It's becoming like just this, you know,
AI sort of growth story inside Intercom,
which is already like a sort of, you know,
a mature SaaS business into hundreds of millions
of revenue.
But I think when we think about like,
what does it mean to be AI?
It's like, first of all,
what is the future growth of your business?
And the answer is AI.
And then over the last, say, six months,
we've been going hard on being like a kind of properly
deep AI company.
We're now at a point where we're like,
you know, we're using our own models inside FIN.
We're using custom re-rank or custom retrieval,
summarization, et cetera.
We're doing a lot of this work.
We have like an AI lab of 50 people
and we really just kind of have gone all in
on the idea that like, you know,
like obviously Intercom still has a help desk product,
but like the entire future of CS is clearly going to be AI.
And that's where we're all in on.
Yes, yes.
Maybe there's the repeated pattern in tech
where the enthusiasm for technologies
comes before the technology being ready.
And so people are excited about computer games
before the wave of like good computer games.
Or, you know, people are pitching a mobile internet
and, you know, you'll buy cinema tickets via WAP.
It's like J2ME and all that.
Exactly, yeah, yeah.
And we actually had our version of that.
Like we had a product called Resolution Bot.
It was originally called Answer Bot,
but I think Xandas is trying to see us
because they had a competitive product.
But like Resolution Bot was actually a good AI product
at the time, but it's just AI wasn't there.
Right.
And so that was the actual reason why we had such a head start
because we actually already had a little AI group ready to go.
We'd already built a RAG engine ready to go.
So we were able to jump a lot quicker than a lot of folks.
But yeah, like it's,
I think a lot of these products,
you're right, like having kind of two or three stabs
before they go mainstreaming.
Yeah, and there was this whole enthusiasm cycle
for bots in 2017, I want to say,
and the tech just wasn't there at all.
It was a horrible experience for most of us.
It was also quite clunky to set up for businesses.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
And at some point I think everyone looked,
you know, there was a genuine question at times
where it was just like,
is a web form not just better?
Yeah.
Like, I think in a lot of cases it was.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Whereas I think now people are starting to have the
experience of, you know, the classic thing is,
you know, you're talking to a bot, it's like,
please, will you please just connect me to a human?
Whereas now it's like,
can you just connect me to a bot
We see that a lot.
We see like, oh, hey, Jenny, sorry to bother you.
Can you put it back on to Finn?
It was actually doing a great job.
It just thought it wasn't, you know,
because I asked a few too many questions.
But yeah, I think like,
there's a general pattern we're noticing,
which is like a lot of experiences
are just better digitized
because it partially causes like human considerations.
Like one of the reasons people go to like the
kiosk in McDonald's, I suppose,
because as opposed to their actual counter is because
they don't have to think out loud in front of a human.
They're like, give me a second.
Do I want fries?
Yeah.
A lot of the reason why people prefer Waymo,
for some people it's like,
you just don't want to have the conversation.
I don't want the awkwardness around tipping
or whatever it might be.
And I just think what we see a lot is like,
once Finn answers one question,
well, people are like, oh, this thing's paying out.
Let me out of your dear nut.
I'm going to ask you all of the things
I was wondering about.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Whereas I think they'd feel probably nearly weird
when loading all that on one per CS rep, you know.
Okay, so you're seeing a lot of induced demand
where people use interactive customer service more.
Which is interesting because it turns Finn
into not just being a kind of a, you know,
a cost takeout,
but also it's like,
how much better would your business be
if everyone knew how to do everything they wanted to do?
Yes.
And like the answer is all, you know,
a lot of the time it's a lot better.
And it's not just the whole like,
I don't want to burn any human.
It's also like people often,
one of the biggest fallacies in AI
is people compare it with like,
with this perfect human that does not exist.
Like the driver that never crashes,
or like in our case it's like,
well, a human artisanal handcrafted answer.
And I'm like, yeah, like let's pretend
that will be there in seven seconds.
It will be.
It'll probably be 18 minutes.
It's also not going to be perfect.
It might not be that language.
And let's assume you're doing those handcrafted answers
which you're not.
You know, it's like visually trying to close the case
before they move on to the next one.
So like, I think, yeah, comparing or like,
I don't know, we have this thing
where we expect our AI products to be flawless
and we're totally tolerant of like humans,
jungle, punga, over only speaking one language
and only working six errors or whatever, you know.
It's just a funny contrast.
Yes, yes.
That's interesting.
And it's interesting you talk about
product onboarding here
because I think of Intercom as you guys are very,
you guys have a house view
that product onboarding should be much better.
And I remember a lot of the use cases
you would talk about for the original Intercom
talk to your customers through the website
was that you can have personalized nurture tracks
and like it's weird that you drop people into SaaS products
and just expect them to be able to use them right.
And you should see how people are using the product
and then give them kind of specific steers
based on their usage.
And it sounds like you're coming to this vision again,
which is people should have better onboarding support.
People should be nurtured
along based on their use case,
but now kind of interactively AI powered.
Yeah, I mean, we talk a bit about like,
this idea of like,
what is ultimately a customer agent going to be like,
that's what fame will be as it grows up.
It'll just become like this way
in which customer conversations are handled.
And obviously the most direct attack here
is like customer service,
but I think every single customer touch point
can be improved by like,
by the basic immediate accurate answers
available all the time.
Isn't obvious limitation,
like right now you require customers
to come up with a prompt.
And if you look at why TikTok is so successful,
it's like, I would never prompt for,
I want to see videos of planes landing low
over the beach in St. Martin,
but like it turns out that's what I want to see.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
And similarly, people probably have many more things they need
and they will actually come up with a prompt for.
And I think the product today is still mostly prompt based.
As in it's reacting to what customers say.
Exactly, a customer has to come on
and like type things into the box.
I mean, today that's what customer service is.
It's still like, kind of like,
here's my problem and it will solve it.
I think, you know, for sure,
there's obvious directions.
This will go as like,
hey, what does a good customer look like?
And maybe we can honestly infer it out as well.
But certainly like, people like you should do things like this
is definitely an understandable domain.
And then I just think working at the right level
of interrupt of help, you know,
like you don't want to be too naggy or too poppy.
Like, you know, it gets kind of quite grating.
But I think if you can get the first message, right,
you can sort of say, hey, if you come here,
you're always going to get the thing you should do next
or like the thing it looks like you're stuck in.
Like if someone's on the, I don't know,
the renewal page and they have an error message,
we know they're probably going to open the thing.
And we know they're probably going to say something
that's got, you know, a lot of the context already there.
So we can work out the right things to say and do.
I think that's pretty doable.
It feels like you could do a lot around,
yeah, you train a model on what the customer is seeing
on that web page at that moment in time
and use it to feed the answer and things like that.
We already do a lot of that already.
Like it's in customer context.
So like, so knowing that, you know,
knowing that it's general and he's on the premium plan
and he's on the playlist page and there's an error
on the screen, there's all useful information
when it comes to, because I like, I think people,
a lot of like the, you know, YC,
I could build that in a weekend type hacker news crowd.
I think one of the things they often,
you know, they're thinking every customer support career
begins with like, hi there, my name is Bla,
my username is Bla, but actually like most support
conversations begin with like, this is broken.
You're like, what's broken?
And like, so to solve that,
you need like a phatic reply engine that's just like,
hey, let's chat about what's going on here.
But like we realized quickly,
like people will kind of disengage.
So any amount of extra context that when you say
this is broken and if someone says this is broken
and there's a big red error box on the screen,
we're like, well, it's probably not
taking that you're talking about.
A lot of people just don't realize how deep
you have to go to actually do a great job.
Like we do, like say, if you install Fin today,
you get like 65% resolution right after 30 days.
Like that's shocking, but like,
we have had to go really deep to actually get
to those numbers and involves like all sorts of,
every single smart thing you can think of
we've had to do and then optimize
and then find the right model for it and all that.
But one of them is customer context
and obviously answers a lot of things.
Yes, well, part of the other smart things.
Well, abstraction.
So like, I guarantee you've got like no pages
on your website that say stripes works really well
for a dentistry office, right?
You probably don't have that in your docs.
A very naive rag bot will be basically like,
well, doesn't say dentist and we're told not to hallucinate.
So no, we don't do dentists, sorry.
And like the abstraction is like, you know,
in that case is, well, what is a dentist?
It's a type of business to stripe work for businesses.
Can dentists be internet businesses?
Well, we say we're great for internet business.
You know, so you're kind of working at what's the best,
what's the best sort of risk tolerant way
to make grounded inferences without going over the cliff.
You know, that's one of like 27 different sort of
components of Fin.
Then you've got obviously your rag
and then you've got like, you're like, hey,
is this, is an escalation appropriate at this time?
Like, have they threatened something or have they, you know,
like you have every single type of problem.
It kind of ends up, you have to walk through it all
to actually recreate customer service.
I think a lot of times people will compare it with like,
how do I reset my password?
Huh, it found it.
And you're like, right, cool.
That's like 0.4% of the scenarios.
You deal with it when you're in customer service.
Yeah.
There's like, there's a pattern.
Do you ever see a movie Armageddon where like,
it's like Bruce Willis and Ben Affleck or whatever.
But the gist of it is they train a load of,
I think it's like oil drillers to become astronauts.
And the comedy to joke at the time that Ben Affleck always says,
he got drunk and he recorded the voiceover for the DVD.
And he was like, I always said,
why didn't we just train the astronauts to drill oil?
It's surely not an easier problem.
I think the thing that we're realizing
with the AI movement is some version of
what's gonna happen sooner?
Will AI people learn how to do CS
or will CS people learn how to do AI?
Thankfully, as I said,
we kind of started off with CS and AI in our DNA.
I would say people, you mean companies in this case.
Yeah, exactly.
Open AI, you get better customer service,
faster than Zendesk, it's better than AI.
Exactly, I think we were lucky
that we kind of had already backed boat horses
somewhere along the way.
One thing I find interesting about what you do is
every company is thinking about AI right now.
Every company had a board meeting in 20 minute three
where the board is like,
can we do a special deep dive on AI?
Because it just feels like it's a lot happening
and we need to be making sure we're on the leading edge
of AI.
And then every company was like,
oh, we're actually doing a lot on AI.
For example, we've seen great automation wins
in customer service.
And so it's kind of like the joke about the bike shed
where it's the nuclear power plant
where everyone has opinions on how to build a bike shed.
Similarly, kind of everyone has opinions
on how to do AI customer service.
And so I'm curious how you sell, given this,
I'm guessing a lot of your customers think,
oh, we know how to do that.
It's not that hard.
We hooked it up to a model.
We're actually very smart on this topic already.
How you sell in that environment
where everyone has opinions.
Yeah, it does like,
I've never seen the like build versus biting play out
more often than we do today,
especially with like certain,
like a lot of customers are like,
you know that meme on Reddit
of I'm not like good or girls or guys,
whatever, like there's a lot of that where it's like,
oh, you would never possibly understand
is B2C shopping company.
And you're like, really?
I've never heard of such a thing.
Sometimes honestly, we just be like,
hey, like, you know, Godspeed,
you go and start building this PS.
Here's a torture test.
When you think you've got something good,
run these hundred questions to us,
let us know.
Oftentimes that's where they're like,
yeah, okay, we think we need to buy your product.
But like, I think there is a,
everyone has this idea of like,
in a move to AI, what can we definitely do?
And we can definitely answer questions like,
how do I reset my password?
And again, this is the back to the whole,
that's such a small amount.
What they can't do is actually have conversations
and all that sort of stuff.
We're like, what is your opinion on the president
and how they're performing?
And like a lot of times, well,
you don't want to answer that question
on behalf of your company.
But I think a lot of times people,
like they dip their toes.
It's almost like they fired a tracer bullet.
They're like, yep,
this seems like we're making great progress.
And every AI product has this problem
where you make epic progress in the first two weeks
and he hit this wall, this plateau.
And then like two years later,
you're telling people,
oh, Apple intelligence is coming in 26 or whatever.
So like in this case,
a lot of people start the project,
feel like they're definitely don't need to buy Fin.
We just helped them understand the difference
between a good bot and a bad bot.
And then they come back and they buy Fin.
So where is the Fin business these days?
I'm curious both just how it's performing
on revenue metrics.
And then are you selling it to existing
intercom customers?
Are you selling it to new accounts?
Just how does the whole thing work?
We're about 6,000 customers and growing quickly.
Fin does about a million resolutions a week.
We're charging a dollar per resolution.
So you can do that.
So 50 million revenue, right?
Give or take.
When we launched initially,
we sold to just to our own customer base.
And then as we kind of progressed,
we realized, hang on,
moving help desk is a nightmare.
Like you've probably done it once or twice,
or if we've done it once or twice.
It's a big job.
It's a whole ordeal.
And Fin is brilliant.
So we're like,
those people want this product but can't buy it.
So we made the decision to launch
like what we internally call Fin standalone
or Fin for platform.
So now you can use Fin on top of Zendesk
or Hubspot or Salesforce or any of those as well.
So basically Fin is available to everyone.
And that's a relatively new muscle that we've been growing
but it's actually,
that's kind of where we see a lot of the future growth.
And so do you is Fin like
you can connect your iPod to Windows for,
iTunes for Windows,
but we hope that one day you buy a Mac
and it's part of the whole digital hub strategy
or we're actually now all in on Fin the engine
and whatever customer service platform you use
is actually not a topic of huge interest to us.
This is such a core question
that we kick back and forth quite a lot.
This is the off-site debate
that's currently being happening.
Yeah, yeah, genuinely.
At least it's certainly one of them.
The way like we think about it first and foremost
is like the future is AI.
So like Fin just has to win.
Kind of like at all costs, including our help desk.
Weirdly, our customers are like,
they turn Fin on or like down, this thing's good.
Hey, Net are like 65% of our support volume.
Maybe we don't need XYZ competitor.
And maybe we can go all in on your help desk too.
And we're like, okay, cool.
That wasn't our game plan
but we're happy to help, if you know what I mean.
I think like the actual,
the battleground we care most about
genuinely has to be the AI agent.
That's the one where like we care about most
but it does produce a lot of like demand
for the actual help desk product too.
Oh my gosh.
Oh dear.
Okay, so you've actually played darts.
Well, I've been around at the airport.
I'm curious what your AI stack looks like
where concretely, you know,
what are the models or collection of models
and prompts and everything that you are using
in production?
How do you handle model upgrades given this,
you know, the behavior is changing so much
underneath the hoods?
How deep do you go
in terms of developing the stack yourself?
Then you can talk about the stack.
First thing I'd say is obviously
Fin isn't like one thing,
it's like 27 different things or whatever, right?
So every one of those is like,
whether it's the summarizer
or whether it's like the re-ranker
or the retrieval engine or any of these
or the direct dancer,
which is where we actually go and formulate the answer.
Every one of those is paired with the like the fastest,
cheapest, lightest, most accurate LLM
that can actually do the job reliably,
like very, very high reliability.
So like that means like there's no one particular model.
So our primary partner will be Anthropoc for Clodsonnet.
We've architected it such that
like we can plug and play various different pieces.
Yeah, whenever a new model comes out
or honestly a new idea for a new architecture is
and hey, like we recently launched the ability
for Fin to do complex queries,
which would be like say,
go and issue to refund and update the name
on the utility bill or something like that.
And whenever like we have to change the architecture,
we have this kind of like arduous torture test
of like 1000s or at least 1000 CS scenarios
where like we have like, here's the question,
here's the context we're provided,
here's what like the current Fin answer to this question is,
here's the best available human answer that we know of.
And then basically here's what this new version
would offer us.
And then so like whenever we say like a GPT-5 comes out
or something like that, we're like, you know,
the reason we're not just a lot of our competitors
are kind of quickly, oh, we never run a GPT-5.
And I'm like, oh, I'd take a beat on that one.
You know, like you shouldn't assume everything's going
to be great for your use case always, right?
And so we ultimately, we have to run the truth.
It's pretty like expensive test to work out
where the edges are.
If it's scoring higher resolution, right?
We need to understand why,
because it could be just that it's like trying more stuff,
but that could also, the shadow side of that
could be like access hallucinations or whatever.
So whenever a model upgrade comes,
we have to trigger this whole thing.
But when we launched it, it was like 25% resolution.
Today it's like 65.
We've been increasing it roughly a percentage point
a month, give or take.
But like very little of that is actually
because of the upgrades or the bumps from the models.
And genuinely, I actually think,
and I say this with a lot of respect
and love for the CS craft,
I actually think we've had enough intelligence
for CS for quite a while.
In fact, we published some material on this
on our research blog, repost recently.
Like when you look at, like, you know,
people are saying things like, oh, like the latest,
whatever, you know, Grock can compete
on mathematical, like level seven or whatever.
We're like, right.
I think you can probably do most CS, you know?
So it's often not a lack of intelligence
is the reason why we're not 100%.
It's because they're too distracted by any.
Exactly.
A lot of the wins come from like,
honestly, better architecture,
better tailored models or like changing into UI
can change exactly how things work.
And then sometimes you will get an occasional
bump here and there from a model spot.
It strikes me that a lot of the,
how you include the amount,
the account context and the amount
of account context you include
is a big part of the secret sauce.
Perhaps, but they're like a kind of
a various customer to customer.
It really is one of these areas where like
it's a thousand lead bullets.
It's not like a single silver one.
Like it's not.
If you look at our Resolutionary Graph,
there's no pop, give or take one or two little tweaks.
Like it's mostly just, hey,
we ground out true like, you know,
optimizing this prompt and changing this hand over.
We ground out another 0.7% like, you know,
and you see the AI team celebrate that
on the balcony on the Friday,
being like, yeah, 0.7 up wherever.
It's hard to work at exactly what bits.
And then it's obviously multiplicative benefits.
Like you might have a win over here
to cost you something over here as well.
Yeah.
How deep down the stack will you go?
Like what's Intercom's version of Apple Silicon?
That I don't know for sure.
I mean, like we're going to chase any edge we can get.
Right now, I think custom models
is definitely where we're going.
And that's like a large investment from the AI group,
which is like the most contested resource that we have.
Every bit of work they're doing
is finding a new edge in resolution rate
or resolution quality.
So right now it's paying it pretty well.
So I think we're going to kind of
place all our chips there until something changes.
What does selling AI look like?
It's quite difficult.
It's difficult in marketing and selling.
Because I think like...
Because it's so crowded and noisy?
Well, it's that, but it's also...
Like it used to be the case
and for sure Intercom used to be one of these companies
where we are product looked the nicest.
So alls we had to do was the age-old,
you know, blah, blah, blah reinvented
and in a big sexy screenshot.
And you can still get away with that in certain domains.
Like linear can get away with that
because their product is the sexiest.
I think with AI, everyone's chatbots look the same.
Everyone's kind of copied our messenger.
Everyone's kind of like roughly like converging
on the certain UI paradigm.
And so you have to ask, like, then when we say like,
you know, we are the best AI agent,
like what do you think all the rest of them are saying?
We're the worst?
Like no, of course.
So they're all saying this.
And then everyone has the same screenshots
because it's like, look what we do inside a chat window.
So you're like, all right,
how do you actually outmarket
and then how do you outsell?
And one of the reasons we launched
like the Fing guarantee this idea
that we'll like, we'll pay you a million dollars
if you find something that performs this stuff.
Cause like we're trying to stress to the market
this idea that like we are actually
believing our product to a ludicrous degree
such that you should engage us
on any sort of bake off you're doing.
But I think from a marketing perspective,
it's really hard to stand out.
So all you really do is like rely on,
on like backing up your claims as hard as you can.
And obviously customer testimonials.
Selling is harder.
Cause I think again, in the olden days,
like selling SaaS in the olden days,
meaning like pre 2022,
it was kind of like, our UI is nice.
There's as ugly.
Here's a feature, great checkbox.
We've got 24 checks.
They've got 17, D7 matter.
We're in, you know, like,
and that was like that.
Like obviously I'm skipping over.
So steps of course sales and it will kill me.
But you get the basic idea, right?
And I think now selling is closer
to selling like infrastructure in a sense.
It's more like,
our cloud is better than their cloud.
And our performance criteria are better.
It's like at times it might feel like, you know,
Intel AMD or at times it's like, you know,
it's our response times versus dares or whatever.
But like you're ultimately coming into it
like with a bottle of metrics
and sort of like our resolution rate
and our CSAT versus dares.
But then people say, well, why?
And then you have to then explain
what's actually happening beneath the surface a little bit
so that people can actually get a bit of conviction
in order to just like trust us
or like please just go and try our product.
Cause it's not that easy to try a thing.
You have to still have to like turn a lot of keys
and open a lot of APIs and stuff.
So like the challenge genuinely becomes like,
how do you have a sales team
that's actually able to like speak
with a good degree of familiarity about like AI?
It's funny you mentioned this.
We have this specific problem at Stripe
which is invariably when people switch to Stripe
from a legacy processor,
they see a significant revenue uplift.
And you think like businesses are in the business
of finding ways to get more revenue.
You think they'd be really interested in this.
And we have this thing that sounds shockingly good
which is if you just move over to Stripe
you start immediately getting more revenue.
And it basically comes from two places.
One is conversion on the actual point of payment
that if your mobile app or if your web flow
is kind of janky or doesn't offer
a customer's preferred payment method
or something they will abandon.
And if you just look at the abandonment rates
if you're seeing a kind of only 85% conversion rate
on that form, then obviously getting it up to 90%
that's a huge deal.
And those would be very high numbers.
Most businesses would not see anything close to it.
A 90% conversion rate on that form.
And so there's huge improvement possible there
to make the customer kind of checkout experience
as smooth as possible.
And obviously things like link
then where you're not asking people
to reenter the payment details
that delivers a big uplift.
The second one is even crazier is
after people enter their credit card details
frequently charges are denied kind of spuriously.
And so your bank thinks that it's fraudulent
because they haven't heard of this merchant or whatever
and so they'll deny it or they'll think it's fraud
or whatever like that.
And we through many, many years of optimization
have gotten good at ensuring that
if it is a valid transaction that that is not denied.
So what all that adds up to is that
we can make the claim and we've seen it play out again
and again we just have Hertz switch
for all their e-commerce payments to Stripe
that when people move to Stripe
they see a significant uplift in revenue.
That's surprisingly hard to sell
because everyone is out there saying
we are the thing that gives you more revenue.
And we've had the exact same thing
where despite you can have all the numbers
and all the case studies in the world
it's just, it's hard to sell
because it's undifferentiated, it's a message.
I remember even when we switched back to Stripe
either you or Patrick was saying like
oh well don't forget to do link
and I was like really, I was like
is this really a thing that like, you know
people have walked with some businesses
forgotten it's credit card or something like that
and you're gonna be able to renew it.
Right, it feels I like that.
Yeah, it just feels implausible
but like at the same time the data
is not like not really debatable.
I think people like to be able to explain it
to themselves and like not like, you know
I think he already wouldn't,
I was talking to a guy who runs procurement
and he was saying like you have to understand
I'm just getting bullshitted to all day.
You know, it's just all day relentless
absolute nonsense in my face.
So like if you think that like you're like
ooh 65% thing is gonna stick, it's not.
It's just like I take it, I divide it by 10 at this stage.
You know, and you tell me
are you gonna save me two million
in CS salaries or whatever.
I'm like yeah maybe in three years time
we'll see 200 grand, you know.
That's the kind of the default posture
for a lot of these people.
I think it is just, it's like they've developed
quite an adverse reaction to like marketing.
People do not have enough empathy
for the procurement person
who just has to endure nonstop nonsense.
Absolute garbage.
Absolutely, that's funny.
I mean this kind of gets to the topic
that you and I have discussed a lot
which is product marketing.
How do you effectively product market
in a world of everyone making claims?
Like one is the guarantee
that your guys made a dollar guarantee.
Has that worked?
It's certainly, it's worked from a point of view of like
I don't know if you know how many people
are in the program right now
but I could say that, well how's it worked is like
it's landed the message of we stand behind the problem.
Totally, being able to say like
here is the reason why you can buy,
you can buy from us.
I think that's a strong message.
The other, I mean obviously like
being able to point to real customers
or real results, sort of like and you can say
go talk to Natalie at Newly
or whatever company you want.
Go talk to that person and ask them
because that's their name, that's their job title.
They work there.
They're saying that with 6,000 customers
it gets more believable as the numbers kind of tick up.
But I guess either you can make crazy guarantee claims,
you can just point to a lot of successful customers.
For us, it might be different depending on your domain
but for us it's not like we can show you,
we can show you like hey here's a beautiful
backend product and here's fancy reporting and all that.
But that doesn't speak to the
the courting someone's buying when they're buying AI off you
is to some degree a replacement of work that they had to do
and the two things they care about are
how much work are you gonna do for me
and how well are you gonna do that work.
And you basically need to product market
both of those things.
And it's very easy to say we're gonna do all the work
and we're doing really well.
So you have to actually really help them understand
how to appraise this scenario.
Like sometimes we put time into actually helping people
helping people identify when they're being lied to
in a sense so we will say like hey try this type of question
or ask them about this.
Help you're almost gonna teach them to be
much more conscientious buyers.
Cause we know the more informed buyer like that suits us.
It doesn't suit people who are just kind of like
jazz-handsing their way to an AI product.
But like yeah, it's a difficult one.
It ultimately like five years ago would have been like
well the trick John is gifts.
Have you ever considered using movies on your homepage?
That's really engaging.
None of that works anymore.
Cause I just think like what you're selling is basically
it's like an iceberg.
This little bit of like upfront UI of like here's what
actually happens for your customers.
Doesn't that look nice?
Yeah.
And you're selling this like gargantuan pile of work
beneath the surface studies like,
hey all of the human toil goes away if you make the switch.
Yeah, I can see that.
What are your other pet peeves when it comes to
product marketing?
Actually, do you want another pint?
Yeah, sure, sure, sure.
See again, this one, did I not let it settle
for long enough and then you have the small head?
Like is the settling-
I think everyone's gonna work out perfectly.
Is the settling time load bearing?
Okay, so what are your pet peeves
when it comes to product marketing?
I think the thing that still kills me
and it's still very common is marketers that love marketing.
So like, rather than actually saying anything
useful or specific, you'll get like,
forget everything you know about email.
You're like, okay, what am I buying?
Or like, you know, transformation reinvented.
You're like, cool.
Sounds like I'm gonna reinvent some transformers.
Like what's actually happening here?
I think there is a general still type of thing
where my screensaver on my laptop is like
literally a typewriter where someone said,
what are you actually trying to say?
I keep that there as a reminder of like,
just nine times out of 10,
the best marketing comes from just writing
the thing you want to say.
Cause like, do you ever get into a Google document,
like our goal is that by reading this document,
the reader will know to follow and I'm like, cool.
Can we just say that?
And say, why is the 2,000 more words here?
So like, I think, I guess like speaking in a way
that sounds like great to marketers
is like probably the thing that kills me most
because they don't marketers, especially in the AI era,
they don't really necessarily understand the depth
of what's actually happening with the AI or whatever.
There's a funny stat that I'll go be used to quote,
which would say something like,
of all the winners of the can awards every year,
something like two thirds of the model used
or contract that year,
because the thing they won the award for
was not actually effective in market at all.
And I think there's such a repetitive pattern there.
You like, where a lot of people like,
they will look at say a stripe or a linear
and they'll be like, all right, we should just do that.
And you don't really like,
I think that people don't get is like,
everything means something.
And this is like where our CEO is like,
every single decision we pick here,
what photo, what icon, what typeface, whatever,
it all sends a message.
Are we conventional or not?
Are we futuristic or not?
And I think whenever I see folks just like copy paste
somebody else's brand in,
even in those sort of like,
oh, we'll change your homework along the way.
I think what they're really doing is saying,
we don't really understand what we're doing here.
And that's why a classic of this is,
whenever an incubator spits it
and you're about to start up,
and they all basically have right-hand side screenshot,
left-hand side tree bullets, sign up button or whatever.
You're kind of like, okay, cool,
but have you actually taught
about what you're trying to say to the world?
There's also a thing for startups
where they probably shouldn't look at
what established companies are doing
because like Stripe, for so long,
we clung to making sure that we had code in the homepage
and people are like,
if you want to accept credit card payments
through your website, we're the place to come.
And at a certain point,
most of the relevant people come to your page
actually know that you could do that
and you can experiment a little bit more.
Salesforce doesn't have to hit CRM so hard
in the homepage,
they're 20 years,
they've earned the right to talk about Einstein a bit.
Oftentimes, like a startup has a great idea
for a great product and they pitch it.
And then like six months later,
they work on some new feature
and in their heads,
the new feature is the big thing
that they're so impressed with.
Not realizing that 99.49s of the world
have not even heard about the original thing yet.
But there they go destroying their original pitch
by being like, oh no, we've got blah, blah.
And I'm like, dude,
no one's even heard of the original thing yet.
And you're pitching some nuanced take
on some extra feature.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Speaking of David Ogilvy,
you've read on advertising, I assume.
What is this?
It was just like,
that's such a beautiful book
where all the marketing copies is so good,
like the roles Roy said of, you know,
the only sound deal here at 60 miles an hour
is the ticking of the clock.
But somehow that's, yeah,
should be mandatory reading for all product marketers.
Absolutely.
What kind of person succeeds in product at Intercom?
When we set up Intercom originally,
like we were kind of like building one thing.
Once we forked out to building many different areas
like sales, marketing and support,
I think we gave a lot of freedom to product leaders
and sort of say, you own the sales product
or the marketing product.
And I think the folks who succeed there
are like, they have to have like decent taste.
And I don't mean that in some lofty abstract way,
but I mean they have to like,
you know, use good software, identify good software,
ultimately know how to like,
pick one out of the bunch in a sense, right?
Like a very common interview question I ask people is like,
what apps are on your phone?
What's your favorite app?
And the amount of time someone's like,
oh, you know, I never really thought about that.
And I'm like, oh, so like, like what's your favorite song?
Like, you know, like I'm sure you care about something.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Certainly if you're interviewing musicians,
you'd like to think that,
but they also probably have a favorite app too.
So I think like taste is a kind of prerequisite now.
And then I just think like the conference
to pick a direction.
And then the, you know, we say like at intercom,
we often say shipping is an act of like,
like confidence and humility.
And what that means is like, you know,
you have to be confident to put it alive
and then humble enough to take the slap in the face
when you got it wrong totally and react to that slap.
Don't like kind of be like, no, it's not me.
It's the customers don't get it, right?
So I think like, we need like high taste
and then like confidence
and then like ultimately understanding
that like in the market and recent sense,
like a product is a conversation at the market.
Your launch is like your opening bit
and then you have to basically adapt
and react to what gets thrown back at you,
which might drag you in different directions.
And then you need to have the, again,
the confidence to prune certain things.
And like, no, we're not building an attribution engine.
Yes, we'll take on some feedback on the CRM side.
But I think like the, you know,
a lot of product managers who don't work out for us
are like a lot more spreadsheety.
And like, you know, they won't take a bet.
They won't take a gamble.
They won't take us down.
They'll just be like forever mired in like,
well, the data suggests
and they're just trying to hedge their bets for us.
It's just not the sort of company we are.
I think we kind of believe
in having an opinion about a space.
Well, and the second part of what you're saying,
if I'm hearing you right,
is the good product managers actually can listen
to the market.
They have to be able to, yeah.
And hear what?
Yeah.
Like I think about this a lot
in the context of tech companies
where Stripe's first operating principle
is users first,
we think that actually paying attention
to what users tell us,
tell us in every sense,
you know, if I revealed preferences in the data,
if I just like when we actually have conversations
with them, we start every week
with Monday morning meeting.
The first thing we do is we actually host,
you know, at the end of the day,
we host a customer to tell us
and give us a report card.
And you know, it's not an A, you know,
it's seldom an A.
You know, they always have things they want to fix.
And they're very pragmatic things
that they want us to improve.
There's no overcomplicating.
And when we do our weekly all-hands fireside,
we also bring customers to that.
But I feel like there's a problem
of overcomplexifying things
and under talking to users in Silicon Valley
where, yeah, it's a bit too much celebration
of the individual kind of product vision
or a bit too much, as you say,
trying to data your way out of us.
And if you're a product manager
and you're not talking to many customers each week,
something is probably wrong.
I bring that up because the whole original Intercom product
was a way to talk to customers.
Like this is kind of your guys.
Absolutely.
But would you agree that diagnosis
that a lot of tech products would be better
if people simply talked to customers more?
Yeah.
I mean, one of the ideas that still can be very early on
in 2009, 2010, I'm going just like a deep coat or whatever,
but there's a guy called Jared Spoole,
who's like a famous UX guy.
And I was on this tread of interaction design association
and somebody wrote this really long,
like, hey, I've shipped X and I've shipped Y
and I can't work this out.
And even though I have any speculation
as to why people aren't doing this thing,
even though I make it really obvious on the screen,
and he just replied on,
he's like, have you tried asking them?
And I remember at the time, I was like, right on.
It felt like a revolutionary thing to say,
but I find like, I shared this piece awhile ago,
which was like the questions I asked
in every single product review,
kind of like so you can kind of either get ready
to meet me or just ideally other people can replicate.
But question one is basically,
what did our users say about this when you showed it to them?
And everyone has to have an answer to that question
when we went like, I'm like, hey, well, what did the user say?
And like, I need to like understand that
because if you're not actually asking your users,
what are you doing?
Like, you know, the only validation we have is the market.
I do think in Devalid is,
and like, well, I'd say Devalid,
but like that's just basically means
in the tech industry, right?
There is this epidemic of like hiding behind your data
and like, what can we instrument
and how many different mix panel dashboards
can prove to me that this product should be working,
or the fact that it isn't or whatever.
I think there's something kind of just fundamentally broken there.
And in interesting use, you said extra value is like
users first.
I'm just curious, is that deliberately
do work in every word you guys say it's deliberate,
but that's deliberately users as in,
do you mean like pointy clicky users
or do you mean customers or do you mean prospects
or do you mean like?
Yeah, we deliberately chose users
because we just meant that people using the product
as opposed to customers, you know,
if there's a buyer versus user.
Yeah, that's what I was gonna ask.
You wanna focus on the people
who are actually using the product.
The people who are, you know,
managing fraud within the business
or actually responsible for increasing conversion
or something like that.
So that was why we chose that word.
Yeah, no, it makes sense.
Cause I just, I find oftentimes,
and if you want to perfect a product,
you talk to the users.
If you wanna expand your market,
you talk to like prospective buyers.
But whenever I like, even in my own portfolio,
when I talk like, what are you actually doing?
Like the businesses that like are,
how would you say like prematurely
talking to more prospects
when they have a load of unhappy users
are guaranteed this kind of miles wide
inches deep, like messy product
that doesn't actually satisfy anyone.
But like they'll get there
kind of like one promise at a time.
Oh, we'll build that for Johnny and Johnny will sign
and we build this for Johnny and Johnny will sign.
And like at no point
that they have one happy customer.
What they have is like a marauding churn bomb
of a user base.
It's funny you say that.
It feels like many tech companies
over rotate on sales feedback,
which will by definition be from the marginal user.
And they're marginal in two senses.
So you've all your existing users,
you know that you're dancing with the girl
that bring you over here.
And then you have this future potential user
who firstly, by virtue of the fact
they're not already using you.
Maybe they're slightly outside your wheelhouse
where like the use case isn't perfect
or something like that.
So maybe they're not quite as good a fit
as your existing customers.
And then also by virtue of the fact
that they have a whole existing way of doing things
when they migrate over to your product
they'll do so in a bit worse shape of integration
where maybe they'll only use one of the four features
or not everyone in the org will be brought in
versus the people who grew up on your product.
And so maybe just restating what you're saying
I'm always struck by people are way too focused
on we tried to win this big new shiny enterprise account
and they didn't have feature X
and so therefore we're gonna develop feature X
as opposed to you've all these users
who grew up in your product and really like it
but they wish you had fixed A, B and C
and just the nature of the fact that sales
gets more airtime than account management essentially
means people really miss prioritized where they spend.
Yeah, and then people take an aura for granted
and think that like that net new revenue is hard
or I like then I think one of the things
that we see a lot of is like in terms like you know
working out for your current customers
like we use the phrase permission to innovate
and permission to expand an intercom
which is basically like you permission to innovate
when your product's pretty good.
Like as in yeah okay let's work on V-Tree
but like is V-Tree in good condition?
Like or you know and then permission to expand
is like V-Tree is actually that exciting
everyone's happy with V-Tree.
Now I think we can try to do something new
for customers like expand our share of wallet or whatever
but I think a lot of people try to solve revenue growth
with like aimless product expansion
to just try and increase the share of wallet
for the people who are stuck with you.
And then they convince themselves they got PMF
or like you know that they have like
some sort of a good product
because they're kind of like full of grass
that will force feeding new features
down to tropes of their trapped users.
And they're like you know we're doing great
but they don't realize what they're actually doing
is making their current product so messy
that like they're destroying the hope of future revenue
because anyway like yeah you could force your current
customers into whatever upsells you have or whatever
but your product marketing along the way
is getting really difficult
because all these features don't make sense
and they're just kind of like you tried to do this
like land and expand thing
but you're actually just expanding
and there's no landing happening in the new product
and then you end up trying to twist yourselves in knots
and a lot of startups like you know
Jason M. can use this thing out
like from zero to one's impossible
from one to 10 is hard
and from 10 to 100 is inevitable.
Like I think a lot of people
I don't think that's proven out to be true
as much as it was back when he said it.
I think a lot of people get stuck
in some sort of glue around
somewhere around a 10 million mark
where they don't know how to like
get the next 10,000 logos.
So they just try and milk the revenue
out of the existing customers.
True like just forced product adoption of new stuff
like you see like here's your co-pilot
and I didn't want it.
But here you go.
I got that thing.
Dez is describing here
how they've transformed Intercom
from a SaaS product to a frontier AI business.
And to do so, they had to pivot
not just the product
but the monetization model as well.
Because inference costs are so significant
AI powered companies tend to charge based on usage
rather than just allowing for unlimited plans.
It gets complicated
and really multi-dimensional very quickly.
Now, fortunately complicated and multi-dimensional
is what Stripe billing specializes in.
Our usage-based billing engine
can ingest up to 100,000 events a second,
100,000 events a second.
So AI companies can monetize products
based on real-time customer usage.
We're powering consumption billing
for companies like Figma, Cognition
and tons of other leading AI applications.
Our usage-based billing platform
has grown 145% so far this year.
So whether you're changing your business model
like Intercom or starting a new product from scratch
your business strategy should dictate the billing system
and not the other way around.
For usage-based billing, check out Stripe Billing.
As you think about the prototypical
$10 million revenue B2B company,
yeah, what are the common mistakes you see
and what do you think the actual path
that more of them should follow is?
I mean, the biggest problem mistake is
is like not aligning your fundraising with your time.
I think a lot of folks
like we got a little bit over convinced
during the era of cloud
that every business had a right
to be like a unicorn.
And so there's a lot of businesses
whose idea was like totally fine,
but actually they should have gone
and base camped it more so than they did
because they've raised on the assumption
that there's an easy path to like hundreds of millions.
There should be more small, profitable,
$30 million revenue companies.
Well, yeah, exactly.
And I think a lot of these businesses would be great
if only they didn't raise 20 until their investors
that they're gonna like easily be worth a billion
or whatever.
I think there's a genuine mismatch there
where I think people have like overstated
like how big this idea could get.
You know, I was like, hey, I know what we all do
is like time tracking for dentists in Delaware,
but like, believe me,
we're gonna be a billion dollar company.
And you're like, okay, well,
one of your restrictions is gonna have to break here.
So that's one problem,
which is more like kind of business model
like an venture ambition.
The other stuff I see is like,
it is kind of like not focusing enough
on the senior, the majority of your customers value.
Like it's easy to say in the,
the best business in the world is like one line of code
that all users execute
and you sell it to all users, right?
They're like, you know, the sweet spot.
It's hard to do it in a differentiated ways
because you know, obviously people learn that line of code
and that's where you,
I think a lot of these like horizontal products,
they say something like a loom or whatever,
they're like a brilliant,
they're a piece in everyone's workflow,
but they're no one's like end to end workflow.
I think they can do well too,
but I think the challenge is like
when people rather than nailing a specific small thing,
come on to the earlier point,
like rather than like saying, hey,
let's get really good at X before we go beyond
when they kind of prematurely expand,
I think they forego all opportunity
of like kind of being the best.
And if they picked a really important area first,
then they don't say that what they're saying is,
it's okay to not be the best at the most important thing
we do.
And I remember like, I remember I think it was 2012,
I was in your office on, you know, in Fydei.
And I remember at the time it wasn't,
it wasn't obvious to me that you weren't going to expand
and do some sort of like peer-to-peer transfers
and people paypal.
And I remember like you guys at the distance
would be like, absolutely not.
We care about helping businesses charge.
I'm like, there's a real harsh discipline you need to have
to like just basically say no to all
of the surrounding opportunities.
I think a lot of people,
that discipline is the first thing to go
when you hear about competitors,
you're gonna hear somebody else encroaching on your space,
you're gonna have this really weird broad view
of all the things you do.
Like I know we just do like whatever it is,
gifts and screenshots,
but actually when you think about it,
we're a global creativity platform
and I dare this premature view of themselves
as being massive and then they feel,
then they go and raise off that
and they need to expand into that.
But I think like at the core of every great business,
every great SaaS business,
but in the future AI business,
it's something that they're just truly world-class.
And it's like, it's not some sort of 80, 20 trade-off.
They've just basically said,
we'll be better than anyone at this, right?
Like you take like linear,
it's basically like they have literally the most,
world's most efficient UI for like,
for product management
and they all observe project management
and they've just gone really deep into like
all of the surrounding adjacencies
that they would need to actually do that job.
We all figure it's just an amazing
creative collaboration machine.
Like everyone who has done really well,
they've picked one thing and just gone really hard,
really deep, really far on it.
They haven't like prematurely blown up
and gone in seven different directions.
And I also think there's a weird celebration
in the Valley of Act 2.
Like the Valley is obsessed with finding second acts
that are totally unrelated
to the first business.
Like the number of people who bring up like,
oh, and we like invent like an AWS.
It's like, okay, you need to use a non-cliché example
if you're going to make that argument.
And the flip side is, you know,
you're mentioning Figma, which is a great example
where that market proved to be way bigger
than people might originally have thought.
My favorite example of this is Nvidia
where they are the world's largest companies
and they started in the 1990s making GPUs.
And if you're an investment banker
trying to, you know, make a case
for how Nvidia could be a really big company,
maybe you'd say, oh, well, and we can expand
into maybe we'll actually, you know,
make our own gaming rigs
or you know, because it was all gaming at the time originally,
you know, maybe we'll make gaming consoles
or, you know, we'll expand to some larger markets.
Where it's actually how transpired is
it turns out the GPU market is quite a lot bigger
than people thought.
And being, you know, the best at GPUs
is a really valuable prize.
And you can't rush it, you know,
it'll emerge at its, but yeah.
And they could have killed themselves
if they had gone in every other direction, right?
And they would have lost their edge in some sense.
Thing was a great example for me of like permission
to expand in that, like, they literally nailed
to a point of like no credible competition,
this idea of like just, you know,
the Photoshop killer, basically, let's just say.
And now they can talk about like slides
and text to app builders
and like every other dimension they wanna go.
And everyone's like, yeah, that's great
because you guys make great software.
I think you have to first be known for like,
I'm trying to think like,
if Stripe launched a payroll product,
it would carry the brand of Stripe
in the sense of like being, well,
it's probably really good, really reliable, really fast.
It probably has really nice APIs,
probably works really well, it worked out well.
You can almost impute like all the ideas
that would be carried into it.
And I just think like, you have to get to that point
before you have permission to make that,
like obviously it's a lot easier
with some stablecoin or whatever,
but like what kills me is when I'm like,
you know, I don't even wanna name a weak SaaS company
but like pick your favorite like, you know,
mediocre SaaS company and anything.
Like, is there any direction you would allow them
to expand in your head?
No, like it's the short answer.
Yeah, yeah, that's interesting.
Who are you really excited to adopt new products for
versus who are you steering clear of the new products?
Like if Linear launched a,
I don't know, let's just say a source control to them.
Like, yeah, it's probably gonna be really, really good.
Yeah.
And like, Seth Godin has this hilarious point
where he talks about like the value of brand
once it's like weaponized,
and he describes like Nike and Hyatt hotels.
He says, if Nike opened a hotel,
you can close your eyes and see it.
You know exactly what the corridors are gonna look like,
you know, the vibe of the whole place.
You know, everything.
It's gonna be, if Hyatt launched a sneaker,
you're like, what?
And it's just, that's the difference.
Because Hyatt has a logo and Nike has a brand.
And that's the difference, you know.
A version of this actually maybe quite literally is
I don't know, so Equinox launched a hotel.
Yeah.
And a pretty good idea because the design center
they had for the hotel is,
you just want to be able to get a good night's sleep.
And it's funny how that's like a differentiated
product in the hotel space.
Like don't give me any of that other shy.
I just want to go to my room and not have like
super loud noise outside the window
or like your light coming into the room.
You just want to be able to get some sleep.
Precisely.
Yeah.
I thought that was funny.
And you're mentioning kind of Stripes expansions
and so this may be a good segue
into your pricing model change.
You guys are poster child for the move
from perceived SaaS pricing,
the old way of doing things to usage-based pricing.
Maybe you can describe a little bit about that
and then how you implement it
and what you're doing with Stripe.
Yeah, sure.
Our pricing journey is long and complex
and a lot of your listeners or viewers will know.
Indicom pricing is a charged topic.
Yeah, yeah, not anymore.
You know, we've turned a corner.
Let me just back up a bit.
So like when we had like two diverse product strategy
we were trying to do sales software,
marketing software, support software.
How sales software is typically sale based
and leads created and marketing was charged
by like how many contacted people you want to send
and support was sold by seats.
So we had this extremely, just to say detailed
but like unnecessarily complex like pricing set up
and we kind of, we lied to ourselves and said,
don't worry because there's always me human
to help people navigate this
because you're never gonna have to self-serve this.
But like ultimately people are just like
I have been refreshing this for like seven minutes
and I kind of understand a word of it.
And that was just one of the few things we got wrong
in our kind of first move up market.
When I own return, one of the decisions he made
was just like, hey, we need to like,
you know, store their pricing.
And we handed back like truly handed back
I think about 50 million of revenue.
I think it's-
Was that controversial?
Like with the board, with investors?
Like we had support for it.
I think it was like people don't really under estimate,
people massively underestimate what it means
to have a really happy customer base.
It's cause word of mouth doesn't have like
an attribution or a UTM code if you know what I mean.
So like they don't understand here to think about
happy customers.
So making the decision to basically like,
you know, kind of standardize on an easy
to understand pricing that's like fair,
transparent, predictable, et cetera.
That was the first decision that we made.
This is before AI, right?
And that was like, I'm most returning to Stripe
was a large part of that.
In fact, as a small segue like,
I think like a couple of years prior,
I had said to you or to Patrick like,
hey, you guys should actually build
as part of your product offering,
a pricing page creator.
I think at the time though,
I probably got one of those like,
thumbs up replies or something like that.
And I was like, yeah, whatever it is.
But I think-
It's on the list.
I think you've done it since though.
We have, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Well, like my thinking at the time was basically
some version of this, right?
You need to not let your customers go wild for pricing, right?
You need to like actually put some sort of guardrails
onto how they think about pricing.
Otherwise they're going to go and invent stuff
that you guys don't support.
And then you're going to move all your business logic-
Pricing your writing checks.
Yes, yeah, exactly.
And once like, I remember like sitting at a Stripe,
many all hands would ever explain like that.
Like, hey, none of our business logic runs through Stripe.
But I think either you or Patrick was saying
like some version of like, that's not a good thing.
I think, you know, generally speaking,
my advice to any software company is like,
don't afford yourself too many degrees of freedom here
because you'll actually cripple yourselves
in a quagmire of complexity that you'll take you many years
and ultimately like many tens of millions of dollars
to get out of.
It's a weird failure mode
that every single company falls into,
which is you start signing deals
that have some super creative pricing structure
and the customer negotiates ABCD&E.
And it's like, it is built in Microsoft Word,
but it is actually, it's just not built practically
in codes because it just exists for this one customer.
And it may not even be possible to build in code.
Like sometimes the, you know, it's kind of ambiguous
or it's like, and if in the subsequent year
this happens, then we go back to the prior year
and we do an adjustment.
It's like a time travel component to the whole thing.
And then they obviously have this, again,
we see all customers running into it,
these kind of manual billing issues
where there is a guy who has to deal
with all these like contracts
that were agreed during the sales process.
And so as you're saying,
an opinionated billing engine is actually pretty important,
assuming you believe that billing should be automated.
If you're happy, like manually getting out the calculator
for every single customer month, then that's fine.
Not having a large deal desk function
and doing all the work behind the scenes.
Yeah, so, sorry, that was like the first piece
of pricing and then the second piece
was obviously when we launched Fint
and it was like, hey, how do we charge for this?
Because we're replacing seats.
And like, at the time, it hasn't proved that
it's just very fully, but like at the time Fint
looked like it was gonna be pretty cannibalistic
to intercom because it was like, hey,
if we're automating at the time
what we thought was like 25% of your revenue,
we assume that means like 25% less seats in the future
or at the very least what it would likely mean
is the growth rate or the NRO
or if the seats model will be affected
by the fact that Fint's in all the work.
And now at 65% you'd expect it to be even further true.
So it was like, hey, how do we charge
in a way that makes sense?
And then also like, how do we be aggressive?
Like as in we really wanted to like put a mark
on the market and that sort of says,
like, you know, we're like very AI forward.
I think what our own and then Dara came up with was just like,
hey, like, let's just charge per literal resolution.
Like every time we do work, we charge,
every time we don't, we don't.
And this is at a time when like AI was like,
you know, margin negative and all that sort of stuff.
We're still working out how the whole world plays out.
Today, we're, you know, we're really happy
with our margins, but at the time it was like,
hey, this is good.
It was a bet.
Yes, it was definitely a bet.
We made the decision and I think the market
responded really well because I think it was very clear
that like the state, the single statement of like,
we only get paid when we do work.
We don't get paid when we don't do work.
It's from the same vein as the guarantee,
which is just like, that's how you know
that we believe in our product
and that's how you know our product works.
Yeah.
It's been copied a million times since,
but I think like the actual decisions that we made
in the run up there were really, really important
from a point of view of backing up our claims.
And then obviously for a lot of our competitors,
they were like, you know, we don't really
have a great way to respond to that
because either our product doesn't work
or we're kind of hooked on these
really expensive resolutions.
And we were totally throwing cat amongst the pigeons there,
which has been like really well received by the market
and our customers generally do love it.
It is funny though.
Like you still get people being like,
no, in a sense, ridiculously expensive.
And then, you know, you're like, why do you think this?
And the answer is because some version of
we don't know how to calculate cogs.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yeah, yeah.
How much are the humans costing you?
Yeah, exactly.
How much is their office costing you
and all the other stuff you own?
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
But people like certainty.
How do you get them okay with the variable product?
You know, you can obviously,
you can contract out whatever you want, right?
Like, but what we offered people is like,
hey, like, you know, most of the time
people have like at least one or two years
look back on like what, you know,
like we have customers who spike for taxis
and our customers who spike for Christmas or whatever.
And we can basically say like, hey,
let's like, let's contract your base rate
and let's talk about over just for the months you needed.
And that's like, that totally works.
What we're basically saying is like, yes,
you don't have predictability in the sense
of it not being fixed,
but you have like, you can model it
based on what's happened in your history.
And it's only really like brand new startups
that don't have a clue what's going to happen.
But like, they're not usually worried about this.
Yeah, yeah.
So you're using a relatively new product stripe
usage based billing for this.
How is that you migrated from Zora for that?
How has that process been?
Yeah, I mean, I would say just to go back to earlier,
like we afforded ourselves too much complexity.
And we kind of codified that complexity in Zora.
I guess the best way to describe it is
we just twisted ourselves in knots, you know?
And it got to a place where we actually,
we ended up like Kieran Lee, who's our CTO here.
He ended up actually returning to the company one mission,
which was like, I am going to own...
Fix billing.
Yeah, exactly, to fix this, right?
And like, it worked, right?
But it was like, it was a substantial amount of work
to like unwind so much.
And then like, they were like,
they're kind of like deconstruct so many of these
like a la carte, Microsoft Word style deals
into something that was a go forward, acceptable or whatever.
And then obviously moving towards
like a clean, transparent seat based pricing
and then just layering on a usage based on top
was actually pretty simple in the greatest scheme of things.
Like unlike all the stuff that we needed,
you guys were ahead of us on like with discounts for volume,
et cetera, all the sort of obvious stuff
people would push for.
Yeah, yeah.
Is this just where pricing in this new world goes?
Because obviously no one buys labor on an unlimited basis.
And at least for the moment,
the inputs of AI do actually scale with usage,
for a significant basis.
And so it feels like you have to have
some usage based pricing.
This is certainly the best we are making
where again, the reason that billing
kind of the top thing they're thinking about
is kind of making billing work well in the usage based world
is it just feels like many products
are becoming much more expensive to serve
and therefore have to have a usage based component.
But is this permanent or I don't know,
does the AI get cheap enough
that maybe we go back to unlimited plans or I don't know.
I don't know if unlimited plans will ever, well,
I don't know.
Here's what I think about it like,
I think ultimately all AI has like two vectors
like how much work you're doing and how well you're doing it.
And the volume of work you're doing,
it's almost, well actually both of them
are going to be like proportional to how many tokens
you're burning or whatever.
So you're going to want to factor that in,
especially if you're a consumer app as well.
We're just going to go nuts.
So I think like you have to like have some,
I'm not a fan of like cost plus pricing,
but it does place a kind of a lower bound
on what you can do here, which is just okay.
Unlike SaaS, you are actually sending money
at the back door as well.
So I think you have to have something
that's proportionate to how much work you're doing.
And then I think as aside from that,
you have to charge consistent
with like how much work you're displacing.
I think that's where you can sort of say,
hey, like, you know, for us anyway,
like if you take an average person who sits in a seat
to do customer service, if they do like,
let's just say they do 20 conversations a day,
that's about 400 conversations a month.
For when we were thinking about how we charge,
we're like, hey, well,
if that person does 400 a month and,
you know, fined at 65% of that seat,
we're still low because we're only charging
like whatever $90 for a seat.
So from our point of view,
it was like an obvious and easy swap.
I think for a lot of businesses,
it might not be if your AI doesn't work or it's furious
or like it's value can't be articulated.
Like isn't it cool that you can now dynamically summarize
the Ghetto issue or something like that?
You're like, cool, I don't know how much people
will pay for that.
Cause they don't know.
They don't know either.
Like, hey, you can now generate random graphics
in your like, in your newsletter tool.
Like vitamins versus painkillers, AI pricing.
Yeah. And like, and it's specifically like,
in this case, the painkillers have a very strict,
like if we don't do it, a human's going to do it.
And we know exactly what they cost.
And the vitamins doesn't have anything approximating that.
So it's not only is it a nice to have,
it's like, I don't even know what it's worth.
So like, you know, I saw a while ago,
it's like someone said like,
when, you know, when studio Ghibli came out
and everyone was like using like that,
someone said like, hey, the fiverr.com equivalent
of all these things would have been like trillions
of dollars and you're like, right,
but like no one was ever going to spend that.
So there's no sane way to actually talk
about what actually happens here.
And it was Bern Hubbard who said that,
you know, when you're tied to business outcome,
that business outcome is usually done by humans,
I think it's going to be really, really easy to join,
to make a business case for saying swap this over to AI,
it's better, faster, cheaper.
I think when your AI is not tied to business impact
or is like debatable in quality or whatever,
I think, you know, you end up with these people
who are just like, oh, let's just stick a tenor
on the seat and see what happens.
You know, so it's like, you know,
normal seat or an AI seat.
I mean, you're kind of like,
I hope no one uses the AI too much.
You're permitting yourself to build weak AI stuff
if you do that, because you're not pushing yourselves
to say, hey, we need to articulate the value
of each incremental usage here.
Well, when you talk about this AI pricing dynamic,
one thing that really strikes me is just
how fast AI companies grow from a revenue perspective.
So I just saw Matty from 11 Labs.
We actually have a great session at our customer event
in London, but he tweeted that they've just passed
200 million in ARR and that's two years after founding
on it, maybe three years after founding.
But, you know, in my day, businesses didn't do that
and it's really striking for me how somehow
they seem to climb the revenue ramps much quicker.
I know.
I mean, you guys are at Fin in another example.
Yeah, yeah, for sure.
I mean, forecast like Fin will be 100 million
probably early next year or whatever, and like back at once.
Yeah, from when?
Like starting from?
I don't know, probably about two years,
something like that.
Yeah, yeah, so two years to 100 million in ARR.
Like, when we started, probably when you guys started,
like, it was like, that was the threshold to go public.
Exactly, yeah, yeah.
It used to take a long time to get to 100 million in ARR.
That was like seven years.
It used to be a lot of money.
Yeah, exactly, back in the day.
But yeah, the acceleration is more there.
There's like, money is, you know, 11 is a fantastic product,
right, like, and it's a great example of like,
there's like four kind of, if you like,
horsemen of AI products that I observe
whenever I'm investing, it's rare you see all four.
But the things you want in an AI startup is kind of,
one is like, is the revenue backed by usage.
Like, that's why I love usage-based revenue, right?
As opposed to like, you know,
shelf wear or pilot wear.
Yeah.
You sold it to two guys in the corner
and they're going to put it live someday.
So like, you want revenue backed by usage.
You want the usage tied to a real business impact.
So that's the emission critical.
You know, as in like, if you're building a phone product
on top of 11, like, if that doesn't work,
that's really bad.
So it's critical.
The third one is obviously you want deep AI,
deep differentiated AI, can't be a same wrapper.
And then the fourth one is like,
you actually want positive unit margins under all this,
or at least a clear path to positive unit margins
if you're not there already.
And I think when you look at so much of the AI landscape,
you'll see so few businesses that I've all for.
It's such a rare sort of error to be in,
to be like, actually, okay, we're doing a real thing,
we're real differentiated AI, it really matters to businesses
and we're making money off it.
Most of the time when you hear about these,
well, we went from zero to six million overnight.
It's kind of like, you know,
to generate JPEGs over Smurf or whatever.
And you're like, all right, cool,
I'm not sure that's going to renew, you know.
Yeah.
That's the simplest AI investing framework I've heard.
Tell you why it's simple,
because you're going to basically write no checks.
So like, I guess I'd say most of the AI companies
have invested in AI, probably Tria 4, Tria 4, that's it.
The only one on my equivalent there,
I think that's very good for staying out of trouble.
And this is where, you know, I tend to push back
when people are saying, oh, it's an AI bubble.
It's like, I don't know,
I think people are happy with the tokens they're buying.
You know, I think like, there's a lot of tokens
happening and just generally they seem to be delivering
useful outcomes to customers
because they're actually delivering value
on the customer service side,
or people enjoy their mid-journey adventure.
Like, people are getting value from the product.
I used to say, so it's a pushback that doesn't,
like, it's an issue.
I was going to push back on number four,
which is positive unit margins
because just aren't the underlying costs,
like, again, when you guys started FIM,
it sounds like it was underwater, right,
but then just pretty quickly at right sizes
as you optimize it.
And so couldn't one be too focused
on the current implementation?
Yeah, I mean, this is a conversation I have internally
with our CFO quite a bit, actually.
Because we're good.
You can imagine the kind of thing I see.
Hey, Dez, you have five minutes to talk about that.
That's exactly the last thing.
Money-messing AI product.
Yeah, hey, quick chat.
I can't help but notice the team
of doing this preemptive loading
or whatever it's called, saying,
this shit, load of money.
So what's my counter to that?
I guess, I prefer it if the path towards profitability
isn't just like, you know,
open AI is going to figure this out for me, right?
Like, an interesting way I'd say it is like,
with FIM, for example, obviously our profit goes up
when we are firing less dead tokens.
A dead token being we've generated an answer
and it wasn't right, so we can't charge money for it.
Like if you're like, say, like guessing the next line of code,
right, or like tab to autocomplete the next line of code,
if like five of six of those is wrong,
I don't know if you're ever going to get bailed out
because your basis, five-sixths of your costs
is like, you know, it's not something you can resell.
So like there's a questionnaire of like,
how much of your tokens are actually generating
a thing that a user wants,
independent of what you charge for it.
As long as the user wants it,
I think you're always in good condition,
whereas if you're like burning a million tokens to find one,
and that one, you're never going to be able to recoup your cost
or at least, you know, I'd love to see your telemetry
to make sure that you actually have taught this true.
I suspect you haven't, you know.
Yeah, I think.
45, that's not bad.
Yeah, but I was very impressed
by the multiple purely deliberate 20s, so.
I'm curious about the co-founder dynamic
you guys have across all the co-founders,
where let me try this on.
My sense is that people want to have
a subject matter area based explanation
for co-founder, you know, collaboration,
where, you know, I'm the technical guy
and the business guy, whatever.
And in my experience, or at least with me and Patrick,
it's much more personality tension based,
where I would say he's more visionary and expansionary.
And I'm more, well, you know, we have food at home
already, you know, you got to finish the products
that you're already doing.
Or, you know, I'm more frugal
and he always wants to spend all our money,
or, you know, whatever the tension you're describing is.
And then there's a useful, well, one,
it's useful to have someone to be able to,
you go back mad by yourself,
trying to solve all these fairly naughty problems.
But also a good company strategy probably exists
at the intersection of those tensions.
Does that describe your relationship with your co-founders
and what would you describe as the personality tensions?
I mean, we're definitely all different.
There's a lot of key things we all agree on.
Own would be like a, like first and foremost,
I mean, he's like, he's a very strong CEO.
He's very decisive and he's very brave,
as to best way I could describe it.
An interesting thing, like when he returned to Intercom,
one of the things he did was basically rebuild the culture.
And one of the things he focused on
was like resilience and open mind in this.
You know, we didn't know a way,
I was coming, he didn't know a way, I was coming,
but like to be able to like react to AI requires
a lot of manic pivots,
zero certainty, and ultimately conviction bets.
And I can't think of somebody better to do it.
That wouldn't have been me, like not a million years.
I would be like, like even being as AI-pilled as I am,
I still would have like, and I can even,
I even look back at my own performance in that period.
I'm like, you know what, I wasn't brave enough.
Like one of the things I'm pushed for
was the city of creating the team thing,
which is like, hey, let's just build a new startup.
Let's isolate them for everyone else.
Different floor, different section in the office.
No one else is in there.
It's just their own stock channels,
their own everything, they're entirely secluded.
And how do you not push for that?
I don't know if we would add the clarity
and focus that we needed.
People might be offended.
Yeah, yeah, of course.
Like all of the things, all of the downsides
you'd possibly guess are all there.
I just, I also think like that there's no path to like,
there's no way, you know, the phrase I've settled on
when I look back on this is like,
sometimes you just, you have to go too far
to know you've gone far enough, you know?
And I think a lot of the mistakes I see
in people who are trying to adapt to AI,
for example, I'll come back to the co-founder
and he was like, is like, they tell themselves
that they've done enough because they,
oh, you know, a few sparkly buttons,
the merge features AI, and we're happy.
We have an AI assistant to the products.
Yeah, exactly.
And we've updated our homepage and say we're able to.
Yeah, first.
So like, we're good.
And I think you need to be willing,
genuinely willing to like make brave, hard to undo bets.
And I think you need like sort of obviously,
you know, having this sort of moral authority
of a founder and then being CEO kind of gives you
some of that, but still it's a huge decision to make.
And I think like I am much more of an,
my default DNA is like, I'm more of an operator
in the sense of like, all right, what are we doing?
Okay, well I'll make it work.
You know, whatever it is.
And I think if it was a company of like people like me,
what you'd see is probably like, you know,
predictable, reliable, sustainable performance or whatever.
But probably not enough actual like,
sort of, well definitely not enough
kind of brave big swings,
which is actually where you need to get to.
But I mean, it is a cocktail.
Like somebody needs to go and actually do the thing
once we decided what we're doing as well.
It ended up like I was leading team Finn
after I decided it.
And like that was ultimately what led to the creation
of like the whole Finn initiative or whatever.
You've now worked with so many different companies
externally, you've seen a lot.
What is predictive of success
and what is predictive of failure?
The biggest thing I'll always come back to
when I'm talking to anyone who's trying to pitch me
to invest or pitch me to introduce John to invest
is it's always some version of,
do you have a real product that solves a real problem
that really exists
and people are really already trying to solve
by paying money or a time somewhere.
It sounds so trivial,
you'll be shocked how many times you'll fail
or you'll get some sort of jazz hand type routine
somewhere along the way
where it's like don't look too much at this
but just trust me,
the areas that I ended up being blind to
and that is like the extremely market expanded type things
like is in,
if someone said to you, hey,
like all companies are gonna have a chat room
and they're gonna all hang out in an all day
and have one product of conversations,
it's gonna be big.
I'd be like, oh, I don't see it.
Like, you know,
whereas like the,
so you wouldn't have missed out on Slack or whatever, right?
But I think like,
I can almost, you know,
hear from the like,
what are you building and why and who's a for
and show me what the product does.
If it's not a real solution to a real problem,
I'm kind of already out.
And then the other big,
I'd say prediction is just,
like there's,
one of the things that's happened in the last 10 years,
sure you've seen this load is like,
it was a lot easier to invest
when being a founder was uncool.
And I think like combination of like,
I blame genuinely the social network.
I blamed is just kind of the entrepreneurial lifestyle.
I blame my TikTok,
I blame all these things.
So yeah, yeah, yeah, exactly.
All of that, right?
To some degree like remote working,
I didn't show in the mix as well.
But I think the amount of people
who are chasing the trinkets
of being a founder of a startup,
even if they're quite smart
and they can actually kind of go and build something,
if their actual motivation isn't the problem
or isn't just some deep desire to be quite successful,
but it is instead to be perceived
like the whole kind of,
I could have been a contender,
rather than I could have contended,
like if you don't really,
really want to be like,
to actually play the game,
but instead you just want to be seen to be playing the game.
I think that's probably the single biggest thing
that tells me like, you know, you're probably,
your best case scenario, you'll sell a 5 million,
but more likely you'll still be alive in seven years.
All your investors will wonder what you're doing.
And you'll be basically sending
one investor update every now and then.
Yes.
I have noticed investor updates with metrics
don't predict success,
but investor updates without metrics
that tell a really fancy story,
but don't have metrics
are actually quite predictive of failure.
Yeah.
Those companies always fail.
I basically 100% agree.
And honestly, you can even tell
where the metrics are in the update.
Yeah.
Like, because often I was like,
do my favorite updates,
I mean, there's a company
that actually probably should be.
And no investor updates are fine.
There's like a bunch of successful companies
that just never,
we never sent investor updates.
Like, I'm sorry for all the investors,
but we were bad communicators.
I was curious.
Yeah, yeah.
But if, exactly.
But if you go,
oh, you and Nima,
if you go to the trouble
of writing an investor update
and then make a proactive decision
to not say how your business is doing,
that's just some deep denial
about what running business means.
So there's one company I can't say,
but like we're both an investor in it,
but like their updates just,
one of the most recent ones was just like,
here's performance error plus to 17%,
blah, plus this, blah, plus that.
You know,
something like, you know,
I hope you can see from the numbers.
We're doing great.
Best of luck.
See you next quarter.
And I was like, yeah, brilliant.
Yeah.
Archive, I'll mark it up.
You know, like,
there's something like,
I think in general,
you know,
the degree to, I think it was Paul Graham said,
like the ratio of numbers to words
is usually the actual thing you're looking for,
like, which is like,
if the numbers speak,
then the words don't have to.
Yes, yes.
What else is predictive of success?
Numbers is one.
I almost kind of want to say the inverse
of all the things that I hate seeing.
I hate seeing founders
who invest massively in their personal brand
instead of their company brand.
I hate seeing like people who are like obsessed,
but like, if the first three or four updates,
I get like bags for retweets and quote tweets
and all that sort of stuff.
That's always not a great sign
because it sort of says to me,
you haven't worked out how to market or whatever.
I like anything around like,
you know, what are the customers saying?
Like, that's like, you know,
whenever I reply and say,
like, what's the customer's thinking of this feature?
They're like, oh, we're going to ask them.
Maybe what you're describing is
there's a very boring playbook,
boring and glamorous playbook
for making products work
about writing code, talking to customers,
running that iterative loop
and avoiding distractions.
And people who seem incurious about that playbook
or just are failing to execute on it
is kind of a warning sign.
Yeah, I would say that's definitely true.
Like, so it's basically like,
if you've got like a decent product,
a decent area or real solution,
and you're just willing to like work
on the boring stuff that needs doing
to actually make that whole thing.
And then will you get bored near
or are you still excited by it?
Like, I think to some degree,
even a successful founders can get distracted
by glamorous opportunities
where whether it's like,
oh, there's a new wave of whatever,
like crypto or like NFTs or whatever.
You'll see people get their head turned quite a bit.
And I think that if you're like genuinely married
to the problem and married to the solution,
you'll tend to like sort of not be as destructible.
And then like so many of these businesses just need time.
Like they just need time and execution.
Yeah, totally.
Last question, because I've had a lot.
In what ways is Intercom itself AI native?
The biggest initiatives we've driven recently
has been like around how we actually do R&D.
So I think we launched this initiative,
Dara launched it, I think about four months ago
called 2x where we basically said,
hey, like we're going to double the productivity
of R&D before February 1st.
That means the, and we measure this
and like everyone's gonna poke holes in this
and that's ground, but it doesn't really matter.
The measurement is, I think it's deployments
to production involving code
that has to execute regularly, right?
So it's a hard thing to fake.
If you fake it, it's like, we should probably fire you.
You know, cause like so.
Now, interesting evidence is like,
is that just the engineers going really hard?
No, like there's like so many different elements to this,
but one of the biggest ones that we saw recently,
which really has been like awesome
is Amit, our head of design,
he basically said every designer by August 1st
needs to be shipping code.
This is like the end to the discussion
of should designers code, right?
Designers should code.
So we basically said, hey, like all designers
can kind of ship code.
Weirdly, the wind there is that like
the amount of engineering destruction has just gone away.
So every paper quote in your UI
used to result in a GitHub issue
to get filed and triaged and get picked up on a Friday
and between breaks or whatever.
And now all that just goes.
And now you're like, oh, I want to fix this button,
fix that padding, fix that thing,
change that radius, change that color.
All that shit just happens automatically.
And like it's getting to much easier stuff,
like redesign this entire UI,
redesign this flow, change this wizard.
All of that's now being managed entirely
by design team.
What that has resulted in is like engineers
who are now doing far more like
staying in the zone for a greater,
using like words called code or codex
or any of those or augment or any of those tools
to actually just, you know, be far more productive.
And there's some real wins here.
One recent one we had was like Finn works in Slack.
But when we were building that,
it was built very firmly from like,
how do we use AI here?
So it was like, let's build one perfect Slack solution.
Let's document all of our principles
and then let's have cloud code, right?
The Microsoft Teams, the Discord, the WhatsApp,
it's every other solution.
So we went live to production with Slack,
but I think we have like everything else now
and like public beta, like, and it'll all go live.
So we're finding all these like,
it's a lot of like 1.2x wins,
but then every now and then,
there's like a 50x productivity boost that we're finding.
So I think that's probably the biggest way
in which like the product has been built from an AI native way.
On the go-to-market side of the house,
we've been slower, but like,
I think we're like, we're looking at like,
we've trained a GPT, if you like,
on like all of our marketing,
copyright principles, our content, our visuals, et cetera.
And we've been using that to produce a lot of like,
you know, stuff like event invites and things like that.
Well, that's, thank you.
Cheers, thanks very much.
Yeah.
Thank you.
