I'm applauding the innovation.
I'm jumping on board the crypto train.
And I hope the incumbents aren't able to strangle
this thing in Washington.
Hey man, great to see you.
Good to see you, Brad.
What an incredible weekend of college sports.
You know, I have to bring this up.
I mean, Texas had that big upset of number six, Oklahoma.
You had to be pretty stoked about that.
It was a good game.
It was fun.
People that haven't been to a neutral site game.
So like Florida does with Georgia, Texas OU,
they meet every year in the middle of the Texas fair.
So the stadium's got several hundred thousand people
outside of it.
Oh my god.
And when you get inside right on the 50,
on both 50s, you know, all one team on the other
and all the other fans on the other.
So it's loud and it goes back and forth.
And it's unlike an experience you get where there's a home team
and the crowd's all just rooting for one team.
That's cool.
Well, my Hoosiers.
My Indiana Hoosiers bill upset the number three ducks.
I saw them.
Going to six and 0.
And I have a lot of duck fans in my friend group.
So I'm going to refrain from celebrating with you.
I used to celebrating Hoosier basketball,
but rarely Hoosier football.
But Kurt Signati has done an unbelievable job
turning that program around.
My 90-year-old mother was watching that game
and sending me play by play.
So congrats to the Hoosiers.
Well, as long as we're calling out the Cots football teams
and then we can move on.
UCLA starts the season 0-4, then upsets
Penn State at home with almost no fans there
and wins big again this week.
And apparently there was a coaching change
after the 0-4.
So this could be the biggest turnaround in history
of Cots football.
Go Bruins.
Pretty incredible.
So there's so much happening in the world today.
We're going to unpack a few of those things.
We're going to follow up on some of the issues, Bill,
that I raised in the Jensen pod, you know,
the latest AI announcements, all this bubble talk,
circularity of revenues, quality of revenues,
AI regulation.
But we're also going to do something today
and cover something we don't often talk about on the pod.
And that's like life and career.
Bill, you have a huge book coming out,
Running Down a Dream, How to Thrive in a Career
You Actually Love.
I'm so excited for this book.
So we're also going to talk a little bit about that today.
And in the context of that, you know,
we're coming up on the two-year anniversary of this pod.
I can't believe it.
Time has flown by.
But when you and I talked about doing this,
we said our mission, really, we
want to talk about markets, investing, capitalism,
companies, but really through the eye
and the investment analyst.
You and I more than anything else, I think, are analysts.
We try to find the biggest problems,
opportunities, challenges in the world, study them deeply.
You know, we compare notes nonstop.
Occasionally, as an analyst, it
leads you to a big investment idea.
Sometimes it leads you to a podcast,
maybe writing an article, teaching a class,
for you writing this book.
And sometimes even a major policy initiative
like the Invest America Act that actually became law.
I think you would agree with me the response
over the last two years has been amazing more
than either you or I expected.
But you know, that also creates its own pressure of its own
to show up, to deliver those unique insights.
And this takes a bunch of time.
So given that, and I don't want to bury the lead here,
you have some huge upcoming projects you want to work on.
And you're going to step back from the co-hosting the pod.
I'll still talk you in on occasion,
maybe to be in a guest.
But you're free enough time to work on your big passions
like this book and going deeper into these topics
that people have heard you talk about here,
US-China relations, talking about regulatory capture,
the dysfunctional state of US health care.
And for those interested, the pods mission remains the same.
I'm going to keep the same name.
We're going to keep chopping it up with analysts I respect,
sometimes with Bill, and covering topics that matter.
You know, like last week's pod with Jensen Hwang
or upcoming pods I have with Sam Altman or Sacha.
This is a moment of I think really unique consequence.
We both recognize that we're grateful to have the opportunity
to open source these conversations
that are truly shaping the future.
And I know I speak for you.
We do it for the love of the game.
Like this keeps us sharp, it keeps us on edge.
You know, and it's a privilege really to get on here
and chop it up and share something back
with the tech ecosystem that gives us, you know,
has given us so much.
So Bill, you know, you have anything you want to say?
It's good to hear one.
Yeah, first of all, just thanks to you, Brad.
Like this has been great going back and forth.
I had two primary initiatives coming into it.
One, as you mentioned, was to stay sharp.
And the other one was to share and give back.
And I've been writing my thoughts on the tech industry
since I was a cell site analyst.
So I'm coming up on 30 years.
And always enjoyed thinking out loud.
I think it makes us better as analysts
and helps us to understand.
But I also like to share with people.
And there's no question in my mind
that this got bigger than I ever anticipated it would.
I've been chased down in international cities.
And recently I was, I started talking with someone.
They had no idea what I looked like.
But the minute they heard my voice,
they're like, oh, you're the guy from the podcast.
So it has been popular.
And I know there are gonna be people that are upset with me.
And I can only say, you know, I'm sorry.
And I apologize that I'm not gonna be doing it anymore.
I came across this quote that was really inspiring to me.
It said, life begins where your comfort zone ends.
And there were a number of people
that helped push me to write the book.
It's taken up quite a bit of time in the last eight years.
It's been a very long project.
We'll talk about it more later.
But I'm feeling a calling to go work on,
or at least attempt to work on some of these bigger issues.
So I wanna create a platform for that.
I wanna create room for it and move a bit away
from the space that I do know quite well
and love quite a bit, but pushing myself, you know,
outside of my own comfort zone.
And hopefully, you know, having an impact
on things that really matter.
You and I talked about this throughout the entire time
I was working on Invest America.
I certainly encourage you and push you to do this.
I think you have an enormous amount to contribute.
And listen, when I, you know,
you and I chop it up together every day.
I know where you stand on a lot of these issues.
I'll bring those opinions to bear for our audience.
And you know, I certainly know that you'll have
the burning need to come on as a guest on occasion
and share some of those views.
But in the spirit of analysis, let's just dive in.
This AI money bubble bill and this Jensen pod,
let's start by talking about that.
You know, we've had just a flurry of announcements,
including another announcement this morning
between OpenAI and Broadcom,
where OpenAI is going to be building
their own inference accelerator,
amounting to well over a trillion dollars
of incremental CAPEX.
That's above and beyond what we already knew
was going to get built out.
I know that you have concerns
about the level of CAPEX, the absolute level.
And I know that you also have meaningful concerns
about how it's being financed.
Why don't you walk us through your major concerns?
I think anybody that's been a student of financial history
has studied different types of activities that historically,
let's just say historically, have created red flags.
And the reason that any AI you talk to
would know what you mean if you said circular revenues
is because someone has used it in the past
in a way that wasn't good.
And I had an exercise which I tweeted,
we can put in the show notes, people can find.
But I just described, you know, there's not one thing,
there's like six different transactions
that have happened now that I would say are non-normal.
And I just described those things to chat at GBT
and ask it for its analysis,
both as an accountant and as a financial investor.
And the AI itself, you know,
would find its way toward company names
like Enron and WorldCom and those kind of things
merely by describing the type of transaction.
And so I think that suggests, if we believe in intelligent AI,
that that's just what historically has been
come the best practice and way to think about these things.
And I've told you before, I think you have highlighted
that some of the multiples are actually not that high.
And I think this is part of the reason
because there are red flags that people are looking at.
If you peel that back a little bit more,
you know, one of the things that you and I've talked
about the very nature, you know, of round tripping
or circular revenues, you know,
I think there's this continuum
on one end of the trend,
on one end of the continuum is a true sham transaction.
There's no underlying demand for the product.
I send you a billion dollars,
you send me the billion dollars back, right?
That's clearly a sham transaction
because there's no underlying demand.
On the other end, I have massive demand for my product.
You have plenty of places you can go get capital
and we just happen to have an investment relationship
in addition to that and I'm buying your product.
And those things happen all over the place in our economy
and, you know, maybe something to pay attention to,
but it's certainly not even close to being illegal
and it frankly doesn't even cause me a lot of concerns
about the quality of revenue.
And then we have things in the middle, right?
These things in the middle
where you can ask a question like,
would this much of revenue or product had been purchased
but for this investment, right?
And I think that at a minimum calls the revenue,
the quality of those revenues into question.
So when you look at that,
do you discriminate between the types of transactions
that have been announced?
I mean, you raised this question first 18 months ago
about the credit transactions
that were occurring with the hyperscalers.
So maybe just unpack a few
of the different types of transactions.
Yeah, and look, I think it started at the very beginning
and I think that's one of the things that's causing this
is it's become part of the competitive landscape
and the competitive dynamic.
So I think there are many boards and many CFOs
who have been put in a position where they say,
well, if we don't do it, everyone else is doing it.
You might fall behind,
but it started with the original,
from my perspective with the original Microsoft Open AI deal
where credits go in as an in-kind investment.
And then those credits are used back against,
you know, Azure and Microsoft cloud services.
And in that case, you know,
and I said it back then, I'll say it again now,
that's a revenue, that's a cashless transaction.
Like there's no cash,
but it becomes an income statement revenue item
for Microsoft.
And I don't think that's ideal from an economic standpoint.
And that practice is now,
I think happened at Amazon and happened at Google.
I think they've made investments in other AI startups
with the same kind of thing.
And at the very least,
it drives usage of their product versus someone else.
And in the worst case, you know,
it creates revenue that might not have existed
had it not been for that deal,
or at least not on those terms.
But anyway, it started there.
It's become quite competitive now.
There's an interesting podcast on Plain Simple,
which I don't, Plain English,
which is in the Bill Simmons family with Paul Kodroski.
And he makes the argument that part of the reason
these transactions are taking place,
I think this is a credible argument he makes,
is because some of these players have already put
so much CapEx, so much debt on themselves
that they don't wanna take the next step.
And so in that case,
you know, you have reached some level
where the company's saying,
oops, you know, I feel uncomfortable going further than this.
The transaction that comes to my mind when I think of that
is there was one where Microsoft,
I mean, Meta agreed to pay for the failure of debt
on a facility where they don't own the debt, you know?
And to me, that's classic off-balance sheet financing
if they own the risk of it,
just because they don't own the paper.
You know, I don't see the difference really.
But this is, like I said,
this is happening in a lot of different places.
You know, one of the things that, you know, again,
I've talked about a little bit on all in and other places.
If I look at the NVIDIA deal as an example, Bill,
NVIDIA has the opportunity to invest
though not the obligation to invest.
OpenAI has the opportunity to use their chips
though not the obligation to use their chips
as evidenced by the fact
they just announced their own chip this morning
and they just cut off a huge deal with AMD.
And you know, in the case of NVIDIA,
you're not talking about a highly levered business,
this is a company that's going to generate
$450 billion of free cash
and is taking a small fraction of that
over the next three years
and investing in companies
that it thinks are good returning investments.
I mean, Google and Google Capital
have been doing this for, you know, for years, et cetera.
So again, I think in those cases,
you can say for certain that maybe, you know,
more of their product is being consumed
than would have otherwise been consumed, right?
You know, we saw this announcement last week
where they're investing in this XAI
with respect to their new round.
Most of these companies that they're investing in,
I think have the economic wherewithal
to raise the capital in other places.
Elon could certainly raise it in other places.
OpenAI was well over subscribed
so they could have raised it in other places.
But here's what I think people
should be on the lookout for.
Okay, so where would I have more concern?
Okay, now imagine there's a chip
that there's only one customer for.
So there's not a lot of demand for the chip
and that chip manufacturer gives a customer $10 billion
and that customer turns around and buys that chip, right?
So there's no other potential customers
and the buyer would not have had the ability to buy it
but for that capital.
That to me raises big red flags
and I do think in this overall ecosystem,
the reason I'm happy you're bringing it up,
I think one of the things we need to do
to keep the wall of worry there,
to keep the excesses from emerging is to call them out.
I'm not concerned as a shareholder in Nvidia
with what I'm seeing Nvidia do today.
I like how they're deploying their cash
on their balance sheet, but I do think
that as you go further and further out the risk curve,
right, further and further to the startup neoclouds
or further and further to startup chips, you know,
et cetera where people to your point
are a little bit more desperate for capital.
Don't have the balance sheets.
Don't have the market leadership position.
I would not be surprised at all in this moment
to see more of those yellow flags emerge.
There's a couple of things that I would say in response.
One, there's a reason we know about a lot of these things
and that's because some auditors somewhere
made them disclose them.
Like they felt that it was abnormal enough
to require a disclosure.
Second, I heard, I listened to you
and the all in team talk about this issue.
I do think investment is riskier
or more risk seeking than customer loans,
which it was compared to.
And Cisco got in trouble just with the customer loans
because they were giving loans to startups
who really didn't have the wherewithal to pay them back.
But that's really the issue for me though.
When you switch from a loan to an equity,
you no longer have to pay it back.
So in some ways it's easier on the purchaser
than if you had a loan themselves.
But here's my bottom line.
I think what this does, this overall situation is,
first of all, I think it's driven by competition
at this point.
And like the first step into the gray zone
was way back at the beginning.
And so now I think we're fairly pregnant with it.
So I think it's a competitive dynamic.
I think it increases the chance that we go over the top,
that we end up over provisioning.
And I kind of felt like that was unavoidable anyway.
But now I think it's higher.
But I think it maybe pushes out
when we find out that happens
because you've just created more virtual leverage
on the whole system.
And you might be hiding some of the signs
that would tell you things are slowing down.
I'll give you a great example.
One of the more peculiar of all the deals is,
and this was disclosed in a CoreWeave filing,
was NVIDIA has promised to buy any
of CoreWeave's service availability
that they can't sell to anyone else.
That is very unusual.
That's not the same as making an investment.
That could easily help CoreWeave with their debtors
and getting more debt financing.
But it also means as a investor,
we don't know what's going on with real demand for CoreWeave
because we probably won't be told
if they start moving into the world
where they're offloading to NVIDIA or not.
And if you'd have said to me,
what would you look for to see if we've, you know,
kind of reached a point where things are slowing a little bit,
you could say, well, let's look at one of the pure plays.
And so now that's muddy.
I can see how it could be,
but I would expect that every analyst
on every CoreWeave call for the next eight quarters,
maybe thanks to you just raising the flag,
is gonna be asking the question, right?
Do you see any slowing?
Are you having to send any of your demand to NVIDIA
as a result of this?
I mean, one of the things I like about this as well, right?
These are public companies, both CoreWeave and NVIDIA.
It is a disclosed transaction.
It's not like this stuff's occurring in the dark at night.
People can ask the questions of this, you know,
this with regard to demand.
And I will tell you,
there is the amount of money that is being spent
to track every single part of this supply chain
from Taiwan to the United States.
I mean, look at Dylan Patel's business
semi-analysis, the thing is exploded.
The amount of money people are spending
just to stay on top of this.
And the second they see something
that smacks of any leakage and demand,
boom, docks fall and warnings go up.
So I think it's a good point.
But let me transition
because I do wanna talk about this question of demand.
So on the one hand,
there's this question about quality of revenues.
On the other question is, are we overbuilding?
So let's show this chart again.
This is basically the $3 trillion of build out
expected over the next five years.
This is the CAPEX chart that we've shown here before.
To put that in perspective, Bill,
that's about 60 gigs, right?
Because we now are normalizing everything
to gigawatts of data center.
So that's about 60 gigs.
It's not all incremental.
A lot of that is replacement or upgrade.
Keep that in mind.
The second is this chart of NVIDIA revenues.
This is the NVIDIA sell side forecast, okay?
Forecast this year is for about 200 billion in revenues
growing to about 350 billion in revenues
over the next five years.
So this year, that means that they're selling
about four to five gigs worth of compute.
And again, most of that's incremental
but it's not all incremental.
And that would grow to nine gigs of compute,
nine in 20, 29, 20, 30.
So that's 350 or 400 billion.
That's the NVIDIA consensus revenue forecast, right?
And I asked Jensen on the pod about this
and I said, what is the chance that we get into a glut
over the course of the next four or five years
and we'll play the piece.
But he basically said there's zero chance
over the next two to three years
because all the build out will go to
the biggest hyperscalers
with the biggest balance sheets in the world
and they're building it to run their core businesses.
We haven't even got into the full amount
with respect to these new generative AI workloads.
What is the percentage probability
that you think will have a glut,
will run into a glut in the next three or four
or five years?
Until we fully convert all general-purpose computing
to accelerated computing in AI until we do that.
Yes.
I think the chances are extremely low.
Okay.
So here's a question after you.
Did you hear anything in the last couple of weeks
that caused you to believe that we're on the verge
of some bubble bursting
or we're greatly overbuilding or anything else?
Or is it just the flags are up
and now it's a wait and see?
Yeah, so it's funny they had Howard Marks
on CNBC this morning.
I'm a huge Howard Marks fan
and they asked him this question
and he said, look, multiples are too low
for this to be, you can't be on bubble watch
if the multiples aren't high enough
and you've been making this point for a long time.
And I would say like you'd have to be a fool
not to notice that these numbers you're talking about
are so remarkably unprecedented
from anything we've ever seen before.
They are massive.
I've talked about to see the Mag7 go
from being massive cash producers
where many of them are taking the majority
of their free cash flow into CapEx.
It's totally new and clearly everyone believes
that this wave is maybe bigger
than the previous waves we've seen
that have led to so much value creation.
So all that's happening.
I like to believe that it's okay
to recognize that the market's great
and still think that these transactions
shouldn't happen this way.
And I'm able to keep both those things
in my head at the same time.
I think it's a super fair point.
By the way, you just mentioned it
so we'll include this chart.
This is Mag5 CapEx as a percentage
of their operating free cash flow bill.
And if you look at it in 2025, so that's this year
they'll spend about 66% of their operating cash flow
on CapEx, right?
And if you look at the consensus forecast
for their CapEx relative to their operating cash flow,
this is the peak around 66%
and has it going down to about 45 or 50%.
Now embedded in there is they're gonna keep growing
their operating free cash flow
at 15 to 20% a year, right?
So there's still room for them
to grow with that coming down.
But I think that is another thing to keep your eye on.
How much are they spending?
And by the way, just give you an order of magnitude bill.
In 2023, their total CapEx was 156 billion
and this year it's 379 billion, right?
So radical step up in your point's a good one.
And just remember a couple of years ago in 2022
when Meta stepped up their CapEx spending on reality labs,
the stock got obliterated
because people said, what the hell are you doing?
This is all about free cash flow per share,
including myself.
I was saying, let's get fit here,
let's drive more free cash flow out of the business.
So much so that the CFO sent me a hat
that says free cash flow, right?
So they got real about free cash flow,
but there's a difference between investing
that free cash flow in data centers and AI
than there was in reality labs.
As an investor, let me just tell you my own perspective.
The reason Meta's stocks doing great
not withstanding going back to high levels of CapEx spend
is because now the investors understand it
and believe in it.
We're seeing the benefits, right?
In the earnings of the business.
They're growing the earnings of the business.
They don't have to hire a lot of new employees.
And so it's fundamentally different than the CapEx
that was going into reality labs
where investors were saying, hold on a second,
we're gonna spend a hundred plus billion dollars
over the next five years.
We don't even know what we're building, right?
We don't know what it will be worth
at the end of the day.
So I think for now, at least,
there's enough belief in the byproduct of generative AI
because people are using chat GPT,
they're seeing the utility in the enterprise
that they're willing to tolerate these companies
giving over half of their free cash flow
into these buildouts.
I do think another dynamic
is the race condition created by the competitive dynamic.
And it appears from where I sit
and you don't need to comment
because you're an investor
and maybe have more information than I do,
probably have more information than I do.
But it appears to me that open AI
through all these partnerships and announcements
is trying to create escape velocity.
And that could be against the model providers.
It could be against a hosting provider
depending on how you think the market plays out.
It could be on the consumer side.
It could be on the API side.
But it creates an interesting stress test
for anyone else in the ecosystem to say,
are you gonna lay chase?
Because of all the numbers you laid out there,
they're gargantuan.
And it'll be interesting.
That's my opinion.
It just feels like they're daring people to follow them.
And I suspect a bunch don't, it may work.
Well, you've seen this before, I know.
We've talked about many times on here.
This was, and Lyft,
ultimately, I think a couple of things to remember.
These announcements are frameworks.
It allows people to begin working,
but they're not etched in stone.
These are not contractual obligations.
Everybody's gotta deliver their parts.
If the demand comes in lower,
then these people are not going to,
at least as you-
Doesn't the Oracle one have to be contractual
for it to be RPO?
Yeah, you may know more.
Well, for sure.
I shouldn't say that they're all right frameworks,
but I know, for example, like in the case of AMD,
they're gonna have to deliver a workable chip,
or you're not gonna build six gigs worth, right?
In the case of this Broadcom announcement,
obviously they have to build a workable chip.
So I think your speculation,
and again, it makes sense to me.
If you said what are the advantages of getting out there
and locking up all of these deals, right?
I can't imagine it doesn't help a lot with recruiting.
All the best researchers in the world
wanna work at the place that has the most compute,
and so you wanna lock up the compute.
I have to imagine it helps with the supply chain
because now you're locking up that supply.
So I think your speculation is a pretty big one,
a pretty good one.
But at the end of the day,
if you add up all these deals and I tried to do this
and we may be off by a bit
and I'd encourage people who have a better estimate
to let me know, but if you add them all up,
it looks like to me open AI would be on the hook
for like 150 billion of CapEx in 2030, okay?
And so the question is, Bill,
how much revenue do they need in 2030
to justify 150 billion in CapEx?
Well, I think you would need
at least 150 billion of revenue, right?
And like at a minimum,
we just talked about meta in these companies
spending 66% on CapEx,
but if they had 150 billion of revenue,
then the question is, is it plausible
they could have $150 billion of revenue in 2030?
And I would argue as an investor
that it's more than plausible
that they could have 150 billion of revenue,
but I think it makes it very, very difficult
for anybody else other than the hyperscalers.
Obviously Google is going to be there.
Obviously meta is gonna be there.
Obviously Amazon can be there,
but it makes it very, very difficult
for anybody else in the ecosystem, right?
Who believes this is a game of scale compete.
So I think your point's a good one.
Maybe shift a little bit,
an area of passion for both you and I,
which is this AI regulation.
We've talked on the pod many times
about the concerning patchwork
of these emerging state regulations.
Under the guise of doing good
and maybe they're even well-intentioned,
cause a hell of a lot more confusion at best.
And at worst, they set back our leading frontier labs
and really hamper us in the race
to stay in the lead in global AI.
Well, it's gone from more theoretical
to now more problematic.
I tweeted over the weekend in particular
about this Colorado AI Act,
which is now passed into law, signed into law.
It defines something called algorithmic discrimination
by outlining these 12 protected classes,
of course, age, color, religion,
but also limited proficiency in English language,
reproductive health.
And basically said if the algo provides info, right?
If the chatbot provides information
that's used to discriminate,
then there's liability back at the frontier model level, right?
And just this morning, Gavin Newsom signed SB 243,
which mandates safety protocols for AI chatbot companions
and gives any consumer a private right of action
to sue these companies for any emotional harm
that comes out of a chatbot.
I mean, I shit you not, you can't make this stuff up.
You said recently that China is so competitive
with the United States because it's run by engineers
and America's run by lawyers.
And that's the greatest risk we have.
Talk to us about the need for federal preemption
and, you know, again, just let's dive back
into your concern about these two laws
that were just passed.
As an aside, I just consumed
Jonathan Hyde's book, Anxious Generation,
where he talks about what he believes
is some social harms caused by some of the apps
on the internet ecosystem.
And I do think a lot of the passion
for writing some of these states' laws
comes from that place.
Like there are local congressmen
that feel like they should have been out
in front of social media more
and so they wanna get a jump on this.
And I think some of that comes from there.
You run this massive risk of trying to regulate
a brand new technology at a state by state level.
And, you know, you could ask yourself, you know,
and by the way, I've said this a lot about policy.
The intent of the policy is different
from what happens once the policy is implemented.
And so people can come in with great intentions
and this goes back to my speech
at all in on regulatory capture
and you can end up with the exact opposite outcome
of what you intended because you just don't know enough
about the way you write the regulation.
Right now, a lot of people believe
we're in this global competition to see, you know,
whose tech stack for AI is used on a global basis.
And if we implement 50 different state rules
that these companies have to jump through
and companies that are competitors
that are competing in the broader world don't have any of them,
there is zero chance that's not gonna create mud
and slow down the US players.
There's just zero chance.
And I'm certain the people that are writing these laws
don't understand that there might be some global,
you know, consequence of what they're doing.
But it's bad.
I mean, I can remember when Obama was excited
about removing some of the state by state requirements
on like hair stylist and whatnot
because it makes it such that they can't move between states
and it's kind of ridiculous
that they would have different laws and different licenses.
This is like, if that's a problem,
this is really a problem.
And so, you know, from a global competitiveness standpoint,
I would certainly hope that they're able
to federalize this and preempt it.
I don't know if there's too much, you know,
water under the bridge or not.
I don't know enough about what it takes in Congress
to make that happen.
But I think this is bad for,
I think it's bad for the US.
And I think it's bad for innovation broadly.
It's gonna make it harder for startups to do things
just because they're gonna have to worry
about all this stuff.
Yeah, it's way worse for little tech, right?
Because smaller companies don't have failings
as of lawyers, they can, you know, go out and comply.
You know, I think the other thing is, listen,
we already have the Civil Rights Act,
we have the Fair Housing Act,
we have the American with Disabilities Act.
Of course, we don't want discrimination.
But this just seems like broad overreach.
It's no, like I don't even know how you comply or enforce.
And so it just ends up bogging down the entire system
in uncertainty and litigation.
And again, it's important to say this isn't even
about whether or not AI should be regulated.
It's just a question of who should regulate it.
And what we're saying is that, you know,
there is ample opportunity for this administration
and Congress to get together and write legislation
to the extent it needs to be written, right?
To provide a national, these are inherently
interstate technologies.
There's no way to keep it in a single state.
And so write a piece of national legislation
that allows us to continue moving forward very quickly,
but all of a sudden, at the same time,
addresses any of these concerns.
I frankly think we need a moratorium on all state laws,
postpone all state laws until the federal government
has time to act.
And if states are going to pass these laws, Bill,
then I wonder whether or not Open AI
or some other company should consider blocking
the citizens of those states
until it's resolved at the national level.
Somebody needs to get the attention of these states
that they can't do this on a state-by-state level.
It's bad for the companies, it's bad for the country,
but hopefully we'll get action out of Congress soon.
I think there's good momentum.
We almost had it passed as part of the,
I think the big beautiful bill.
And so I think there's a lot of movement of foot
in order to do it.
I wanted to highlight it
because I think it's one of the high priority issues
facing the new Congress.
All this AI, all the time stuff, Bill,
and you pinged me and you said,
hey, I wanna talk about stablecoin, right?
We have this parallel development in the world.
So I think if we have three major trends in the world,
AI is clearly the largest super cycle going on.
The reindustrialization of America is massive.
All these critical supply chains.
And I would say the third one is kind of the digitization
and tokenization of finance.
It's going on as a result of the administration
basically turning 180 degrees
from where the Biden administration was,
total support of crypto and the Bipartisan Genius Act.
So here are a couple of facts and figures
to throw your way and then I'll let you take it over.
Total stablecoin supply is now over $300 billion
up from basically zero in 2021.
And this is dollar-for-dollar backed stablecoin.
Correct.
Adhering to the new policy.
Yep.
And total settled is now over $18 trillion.
Monthly stablecoin senders is now close to $30 million.
And Circle and Tether are issuing $15 billion
of stable per month
and becoming the largest buyers of U.S. Treasuries.
So that's how much they're increasing
the pool of capital they hold to back up the stablecoin.
Correct.
And we'll show this Visa dashboard.
You know, it's really cool for tracking all of this activity.
Of course, Stripe after the purchase of Bridge
has gone all in on stable.
They just unveiled this new stablecoin issuance tools
and expanded into AI commerce with open AI
that could have some stable implications.
So what are your spidey senses telling you
about the consequences of what I think
is a dramatic change and where we're headed?
Well, one thing, I think that many people
who listen to the podcast might say,
oh, look at Gurley jumping on the crypto train
because I have not been a bull.
And so to them, kudos for getting it right.
I had no idea you would have this dramatic a shift in policy.
It's probably one of the biggest shifts we've ever seen
in financial policy.
And quite frankly, I've always felt like,
and this I think it's still to play out
that the financial incumbents in the U.S.
are really good at regulatory capture
and preventing themselves from getting disrupted,
which is part of why I've been surprised.
Something that really raised my eye
that made me pay attention to this, which seems far away,
there was a move by the Trump administration
to criticize Brazil for the success of PIX.
And I've talked about PIX in the past.
PIX is a digital, clear immediately interbanking product
offered by the Brazilian government
that didn't exist five years ago and is wildly successful.
It was mirrored after the same programs
that was built in the UK 17 years ago
called UK Faster Payments, who we've talked about.
And these programs exist in China and India as well.
And because of the regulatory capture,
none of this has ever happened in the U.S.
Your ACH takes three days to settle.
Your wire costs $25 for domestic,
$50 for international.
And you have to fill out pages and pages
that sometimes get a verbal.
And we are so behind.
I am gonna go out on a limb and say,
I hope someone, whoever agitated this to happen
in the Trump administration is someone
who is kind of caught in a regulatory capture position,
getting lobbied by somebody.
I think if the Trump administration studied this,
they shouldn't be critical of PIX,
they should be envious of it.
We should have done this a long time ago with FedNow.
But we may be on the verge of stable coin
just being able to do this anyway.
And the rails have tons of transaction on them,
as you've talked about.
We have this interesting situation
where Coinbase and Circle have done this deal
where Coinbase will allow you to earn 4%
on your stable coin balance.
Which to get that kind of return at another bank,
even a neobank, you have to have
your direct deposit go there.
Here, whether it's 10 bucks or a million bucks,
you put it in stable coin with Coinbase
and you start earning 4% daily.
And on top of that, and this gets back to the PIX thing,
you can transact immediately out of that count.
So you don't have to move it from your savings
to your checking to get it to do ACH.
But you can send stable coin immediately in microseconds
and it'll cost you a few pennies.
It is, the rails are there, they're ready, and it's working.
And I think the UI's a little difficult,
but there's no reason why that won't get better and faster.
And so I look up and I'm just,
I wonder what the team at Meta,
like they might just be kicking themselves
like with all the money they spent on that coin,
everything they wanted to do on WhatsApp,
like they should be running back at it.
Like I don't know if it matters.
Maybe they should, remember the guy who did the Libra network,
David Marcus has started the Lightning Network now,
it's a startup.
Maybe Meta should go buy Lightning
and bring David back in-house
because all the things they talked about,
all the things they talked about
are now what's happening, Bill.
And let me tell you,
I think you're on to something big here,
but one of the challenges we still have,
I think first, anybody who looks at our current system
right knows that it's dreadfully behind the rest of the world.
And we know it's the result of regulatory capture
by not only card issuers,
but the banks and everybody else
who benefit from the status quo.
But if you look at Visa and Mastercard today,
I think that they're doing something
like 50,000 transactions per second.
And I checked with our good buddy Vinny Lingam
and he said on both Salon and ETH today,
they're still under 4,000 transactions per second.
So they're trying to come up with these solutions
to actually make the rails
have the functional throughput and efficient settlement
required to really become a consumer product.
But I think you nailed the other one
that Patrick Collison had a tweet on this
that I replied to, which is,
when Genius Act was passed,
there was massive lobbying by the banks
to prevent the crypto companies
from paying interest on stablecoins.
So the settlement was that they could pay rewards,
not interest, okay?
And, but the way in which it's manifested itself
because Coinbase is not the issuer,
Circle is the issuer and they did this deal.
So Coinbase is promoting it as though it was interest.
So from a consumer perspective,
a reward and interest,
if it's 4% is indistinguishable.
No doubt.
So I put my money-
And obviously Brian's been out on,
Brian Armstrong of Coinbase has been out on X,
like arguing his side of the argument.
So he's either getting opposition
or expecting opposition on the regulatory front.
And when I see whether it's Visa or NASDAQ
or any of these people kind of run at the tokenization,
I always worry like,
because if you look at the history of the debit card
versus the credit card, it was supposed to be disruptive.
It was supposed to be an alternative
that would change things,
but they just run at it and strangle it
and mix it up a little bit
and then it's not as disruptive as it was.
That's their go-to move.
But, you know, when I read this thing on PIX again,
like I'm gonna read this out loud,
as part of its aggressive economic
and political campaign against Brazil
is investigating PIX,
accusing the payment system of unfairly undercutting
U.S. financial and technology companies
like Visa and Apple.
I mean, that's the most absurd thing I've ever heard.
Undercutting Visa?
Like, do they realize they have Visa and Mascara
like the top two operating incomes
in the history of American business?
Like, there's no one that needs less protection
than these guys.
If anything, there should be an investigation.
Were those guys at the dinner at the White House?
And at Cabal?
I don't know.
I just like, it's so bizarre to me.
I'm so thrilled to see this kind of disruption.
I think that it's super interesting what's possible.
I suspect all of the big guys
should be paying attention to this, Apple, Google, Amazon,
anybody that might have payment under rails.
I'll go out on a limb, Bill.
You're gonna see the hyperscalers.
You're gonna see Amazon and Meta
and these guys back involved in the stable business.
At the end of the day,
we know money as a network effects business.
And the challenge of Circle
and some of these stables from a consumer perspective
is Visa and MasterCard are universal.
So you gotta get to all the merchants.
Well, who has all the merchants?
Amazon and Meta, right?
And so I think they're in a great position
to partner with or do some of these things themselves.
Clearly they have the instinct to do it.
That's why they did Lieber in the first place.
It's also amazing for innovation.
And one of the reasons why I think
those bigger companies should run at this
is if you look at the history of the picks
like alternatives I mentioned in the UK
and China and India,
the startups that do financial innovation
scale up way more aggressively and successfully
on those rails that are cheaper and faster.
And if anything, the having more rigid,
high friction, high transaction cost rails
makes it harder for a startup to think about
using one of those technologies.
And so the success of WeChat, Pay and Oli Pay,
which as I described for my China chip are universal.
They're the only way people pay in China
happen because of that government incident pay product,
not in spite of it.
And the same thing I talked to the CEO of New Bank,
he said picks was huge for his business.
So it's probably bad for a laggard bank,
but for a bank that embraces it,
it just becomes a better feature.
And I think the same thing about Coinbase
and what they're doing here.
So I'm applauding the innovation.
I'm jumping on board the crypto train.
And I hope the incumbents aren't able to strangle
this thing in Washington.
Here, here, here, here.
As we move towards the end and talk about my book
and what I'm gonna do next,
I do want to share with you that both my book
and the next project are outside of what
I've spent my career doing.
And as I mentioned, that's kind of moving outside
my comfort zone, but it's also trying to have
an impact and give back in areas
that I don't know as well,
but with a hope towards having an impact.
I've said this to you before,
but I've been just inspired frankly to go do this
based on your success with Invest America.
And when you first told me about it,
I had doubts that you could get it done, real doubts.
And I've watched other people in your shoes
try and do these types of things over decades
and be unsuccessful.
So you made it look easy.
I know it's just getting started,
but I wanted you to know how much that inspired
what I'm gonna go do.
And could you give us an update on where things are?
Well, that means a lot, Bill.
Maybe to talk about it first is just a reminder.
I think you and I agree.
We kind of have this battle for the soul of America
when it comes to capitalism right now, right?
And that's fundamentally because too many people
feel left out and left behind.
60% of people will never own assets that compound.
Mondami's winning the Mayorial Race in New York City.
And they're doing it by being anti-capitalist.
But if you look at these two charts,
I've shown them many times before,
it just shows you that free market capitalism
is the most productive force in the history of the world.
This first chart just shows that GDP on a global basis
went parabolic at the exact same time
that capitalism was really introduced
and started taking off.
And reminder, like GDP is important
because it's that surplus for humanity
with a fixed amount of labor and capital
that then leads to better schools and better hospitals
and drugs that save lives
and all the things that make our lives better.
And you can look at this chart that shows the results.
Fewer mothers die in childbirth.
The average age of life is extended.
The quality of life is higher.
Literacy rates are higher.
Bill Gates extols upon this in his annual letters.
So it's not just an investment account.
This is really a much, much bigger battle
over where we want the country to go.
And I was very concerned, as you know, a few years ago,
that we were headed down this path, right?
And the path is that you can't have
so many people left out and left behind.
So I think the answer to socialism,
which has not worked for Europe, right?
Europe's in a disaster relative to where they were
30 years ago on a global competitive basis.
And China, as you well noted,
have pulled themselves out of poverty
by leveraging capitalism, right?
So the answer to this drift into socialism
is more capitalism.
And the Invest America accounts,
now known as the Trump accounts, right,
are more capitalism.
They make every child a capitalist from birth.
A private owner gives them a thousand bucks
in a 401k-like account that they own and control
their family has on their phone.
And so I think that's a game changer, you know,
but you're right, we just got it passed.
So where are we now?
The Treasury Secretary, Scott Besant,
has to implement this.
And by the way, this is one of the largest
consumer launches in the history of government.
So at the start today,
there are 65 million kids in the country
qualified for an Invest America account.
Every kid under the age of 18.
And every kid under the age of two
will automatically get a thousand bucks in their account,
right?
So you'll probably hear a launch starting
in maybe early December.
Well, the launch, the website,
people can sign up for this.
Remember, the accounts have to be funded
and established by our 250th birthday, July 4, 2026.
That's only nine months from now.
And I can tell you, I've been blown away
by the Secretary, Secretary Besant,
the Assistant Secretary, Luke Pettit,
and the team at Treasury working with the White House.
They're attacking this the way I would expect
a Silicon Valley startup to attack the problem.
They've got a great group of technologists,
Joe Gebia helping to design the front end of this,
of course, from Airbnb.
So, you know, we're on the verge now
of some major announcements,
the start where people can start signing up their kids.
You know, and then the goal is,
once we launch this, all these kids
will have these accounts.
They'll be able to roll them over
into their favorite, you know, bank,
whether it's Schwab or Fidelity or JP Morgan
or what have you.
And starting on July 4th and next year, Bill,
is close to automatic account creation as possible.
So you have a child, the child's born,
they get a social security number
and they get an account seated with a thousand bucks.
From a kid's perspective,
it's gonna look like I own a little bit of Microsoft
and I own a little bit of UnitedHealthcare
and NVIDIA and whatever.
We're gonna be able to teach this,
in fact, you know, your buddy Tim
who's teaching financial literacy,
you know, we now have 30 states
require financial literacy requirements.
We're gonna have this embedded in the schools.
Every kid's gonna have this on their phone.
So at any rate, it's going incredibly well.
I give them a very high score,
but we gotta get it done.
So let's talk about your book.
I've been a huge fan of the speech you made on this,
but I love the title, Running Down a Dream.
What's the thrust of the book?
I remember, you know, kind of that lecture,
but what really compelled you to write it?
So I was years ago,
and this is probably going back 10 years,
I was reading a lot of biographies
and I noticed certain patterns among people
with extraordinary careers.
And as VCs, we see a lot of patterns
in businesses and pattern recognition.
And I just saw patterns with people.
And in the back of my mind,
I always wanted to do this presentation.
I kind of kept notes on it like I would
a unwritten above the crowd blog post.
And I had an opportunity,
I got invited and had an opportunity
to give the presentation to the MBA class
at the University of Texas.
And so, you know, I worked on it
and put it together, made it nice
and gave that presentation.
They ended up putting that on YouTube.
And many people have come to me
and said that it's changed their lives,
encouraged them to do different things.
Certain people in the media industry
noticed David Sinra,
who's got the new podcast
where he interviewed Daniel Eck and Michael.
He's a big fan of the presentation,
talks about it a lot on his podcast.
James Clear, who wrote Atomic Habits,
maybe one of the best self-help
personal development writers out there,
he retweeted it and put a transcript on his own website.
And then a few people who were influential in my life
started prodding me.
Yeah, you should turn that into a book.
And so, eventually I got convinced.
We talked to publishers, they were interested.
And so, I started working on this now.
It took a long time.
And the thing I would say about it is
that I hoped at that time equates to quality.
Like, I was out there really wanting to make it great.
And so, the book has an interesting kind of novel architecture.
We combine what I call profiles.
So, stories of success with principles,
tools of success, so they alternate.
So, you get a story maybe about someone you didn't know
and how they started at the very bottom
and became successful.
And then the types of things they did.
And I do think that the principles,
these tools that are in the book
are things people can use.
And I really want it to be great.
It's done.
I still need to record the audio version.
All the podcast fans of ours tell me I have to do it.
It has to be my voice, so I'm gonna do it.
I hope people love it.
I hope it changes their lives for the better.
And what I really want to encourage
is people to take a chance and do what they really love.
I think it's such an important topic.
One of the things parents are asking me so much these days
is, what should my kids do?
Particularly, there's a lot of anxiety in the world today
about future careers.
And so maybe just talk a little bit about
why this is so important now,
because I think the timing is really profound here.
So, in the introduction chapter, we unpack a lot of this.
And I don't think anyone would be surprised
when I read some of this,
but Gallup Poll does a career engagement study.
They've been doing it for a long time.
I think in the 20, 23 one,
only 23% of people said they were thriving
or engaged at work and 59% were unsatisfied.
And that's just a big universal survey.
Everyone seems aware that we've kind of moved to this gauntlet
that we've put our kids in
as they approach college and go through college
in the coddling of the American mind,
Haydn Lukianoff called a resume arms race.
And we really taught them to be grinders,
but Angela Duckworth highlights that
if you have persistence, but not passion,
you eventually recognize you're in a grind.
And when you come out of that,
you're in a really tough spot.
And so we've got people,
we've got these kids on this runway.
We're telling them like they have to pick a major
even in their application.
So they're 17, what do you want to do with your life?
What do you want to do?
And they really don't know.
And one thing we stumbled upon doing research on the book,
I was working with a researcher.
We did this survey and asked people,
if you could start your career over again,
would you do things differently?
And in that survey, 70% of people said yes.
And we did it again with Wharton
just to make sure we had a true academic survey going on.
And they did a lot more people.
And that number was still six in 10.
Six in 10 said if they could start a career over,
they'd do it again.
And there's a great book.
I read a lot of books in writing my book,
but there's a great book called
The Power of Regret by Daniel Pink.
He's a well-known author,
but he has this thing he calls boldness regrets.
And he said, one of the most robust findings
in the academic research and on my own
is that over time,
we are much more likely to regret the chances
we didn't take than the chances we did.
He says, again, the surface domain,
whether the risk involved or education or work
or love lies doesn't matter much.
What haunts us is the inaction itself.
And so I think that ties really nicely
with this idea that if people could start over,
they'd do something different.
There's a great video that Pink references
that we can put in the show notes
where Bezos is asked about the decision to leave D.E. Shaw
and start Amazon.
And he said he used a regret minimization framework.
He said, oh, it's only a nerd could do that.
But he said that he imagined himself being 80
and would he care that he left D.E. Shaw
maybe for when a bonus?
Or would he care more that he didn't take this chance,
this kind of instinctive chance
that he felt like he had to take?
And he immediately, after thinking about it
and know in that way, wanted to go do it.
And so-
Hey, Bill, I have Bezos's regret minimization framework
taped to my computer monitor.
There you go.
I didn't even know that.
It's literally taped to my monitor.
Yeah, powerful.
Yeah, so that's what this is about.
That's what this book is about.
That's who it's for.
And I want more people to take a flyer
and go do what they love.
You know, we have a phrase I use in the book,
life is a use it or lose it proposition.
Totally.
One-shot deal, man.
Well, how do you plan to promote it?
It comes out in February, late February.
And so I'm just getting started in that process.
If people have ideas they want to share with me,
please reach out and let me know.
Book Club, I'll host a book launch event, Bill.
Okay.
Okay.
We've got a lot of fun stuff planned.
But I need to record the audio book.
I know that's gonna take a lot of time.
I'm excited.
There's a handful of people that have read it,
maybe 50 in the publisher and whatnot.
And nearly every one of them tells me
that they immediately thought of three or four people
they wanna give it to.
And so I hope there's kind of a viral component to it
because people have that reaction.
But if you're feeling stuck in your career,
you should read it.
If you're a teenager, young adult
who feels overwhelmed by people telling you,
where do you wanna major in?
Where do you wanna go?
What are you gonna do with your,
like I think this book won't put more pressure on them.
I think it'll actually relax them
and give them a framework that feels
like a lot more personal to themselves
and like they're a lot more in control.
If you're a parent that wants to help a child
on that journey,
I think parents sometimes overly push kids
into the Lawyer Doctor Banker framework.
I'm not sure that's healthy,
especially in this AI world
where those jobs may be under risk as well.
And then maybe if you're an administrator
or someone in the type of role
that guide people in career decisions,
hopefully you'll like it as well.
But we'll put the pre-order link in the show notes.
I will put it on my X feed.
Please go out and pre-order the book.
I think it'll help reach more people and be successful.
Well, I think it's gonna be hugely impactful
and it's a type of stuff of consequence.
I'm just, you know, I'm thrilled that you're doing it.
I'm thrilled that you're taking the time to do it.
I know that's not the only thing that you're thinking about.
You have these other, you know,
big topics that you're thinking about as well, Bill.
We've talked about them here
and I'm sure we will continue to regulatory capture,
US healthcare, nuclear, et cetera.
What are you thinking about with respect to those things?
You gonna write a book on every one of them?
No, that's, well, I could, but it's not my goal.
My goal is to just go spend more times
on these really big problems
and see if I can be helpful in any way.
I've spent a career kind of breaking down
and analyzing different situations.
I mean, two of my favorite podcasts we've done
and I hear about this from the community as well,
the one we did at Diablo Canyon
and then the one about around my China trip
and those types of work are very rewarding for me
but they also were learning expeditions.
You know, I went out and put in more hours
for those episodes than others.
And the nuclear one in particular, you know,
one of the things people ask me
why would I want to go do this?
You know, we were a small part of a movement
to kind of change the mindset on nuclear energy
and there were people that put a lot more effort into us.
I'm not trying to take credit for it,
but you know, the fact that Steve Pinker was out there,
Elon, you know, our stuff, like it eventually happened.
Like overnight, seemingly overnight,
we went from a very negative mindset towards nuclear energy
to recognizing that it's very clean energy
and something that can really help save the planet.
And so that type of meme flip,
if I could go achieve more of those
in these other areas, I would consider to win.
So that's what's motivating me.
I'm really looking forward to it.
I'm kind of fired up and nervous at the same time.
But that's what I'm thinking about.
There'll be more to come on that
in terms of what the actual platform looks like.
I'm still working on it.
But for now, I'm gonna sprint into February
to make sure the book does well.
I couldn't be more stoked for you.
There's been a total blast.
You and I have been chopping it up for, you know,
for a couple of decades,
but doing this the last two years together,
pounding out these has been a lot of fun for me.
I'm sure we'll continue to chop it up every day.
And, you know, I'm sure that you'll find some topic
that you can't live without exploring on the slide.
Can't resist talking about it.
Exactly.
So we'll get you back on.
But I'm gonna give you the last word, Bill.
It's awesome to hear about all of this.
And I'm super excited for the book.
Well, I would just, you know,
in the way I started, Brad, thanks to you.
It's been fun working together on this
and doing it every week.
It does force you to stay fresh.
You have to read everything you possibly can,
which I'm sure is super helpful to use an investor.
And then thanks to all our listeners.
Like, I'm sure some of them are gonna feel
like I'm letting them down.
And I feel the weight of that.
But hopefully they'll recognize that I'm gonna go try
and put my work effort to good causes.
As a reminder to everybody, just our opinions, not investment advice.
